input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@documentencoding ISO-8859-1
@setfilename libTMCG.info
@include version.texi
@settitle The LibTMCG Reference Manual
@c %**end of header

@c Include data type index into function index
@syncodeindex tp fn

@c A simple macro for optional variables. (copied from gcrypt manual)
@macro ovar{varname}
@r{[}@var{\varname\}@r{]}
@end macro

@copying
This is the reference manual of LibTMCG.

Revision $Id: libTMCG.texi,v 1.54 2007/05/07 16:42:36 stamer Exp $.

Copyright @copyright{} 2005, 2006, 2007 Heiko Stamer <@email{stamer@@gaos.org}>.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title The LibTMCG Reference Manual
@subtitle Version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@sp 9
@center @titlefont{@math{@clubsuit@qquad@quad@spadesuit@qquad@quad@heartsuit@qquad@quad@diamondsuit}}
@sp 2
@center @titlefont{An Implementation of the}
@vskip 10pt
@center @titlefont{Toolbox for Mental Card Games}
@sp 2
@center @titlefont{@math{@diamondsuit@qquad@quad@heartsuit@qquad@quad@spadesuit@qquad@quad@clubsuit}}

@author Heiko Stamer <@email{stamer@@gaos.org}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top LibTMCG Reference Manual
@menu
* Introduction::
* Application Programming Interface::
* Examples::
* Licenses::
* General and API Index::
@end menu

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@node Introduction
@c **********************************************************
@c *******************  Introduction  ***********************
@c **********************************************************
@chapter Introduction
`@acronym{LibTMCG}' is a C++ library for creating secure and fair online
card games. The library contains a sort of useful classes, algorithms, and
high-level protocols to support an application programmer in writing such
software. The most remarkable feature is the absence of a trusted third
party (TTP), i.e., neither a central game server nor trusted hardware
components are necessary. Thus, with the present library there is no need
for an independent referee, because the applied protocols provide a basic
level of confidentiality and fairness by itself. Consequently, the library is
well-suited for peer-to-peer (P2P) environments where no TTP is available.
Of course, we cannot avoid that malicious players share information about
their private cards, but the protocols ensure that the shuffle of the deck
is performed randomly (presumed that at least one player is honest)
and thus the cards will be distributed uniformly among the players.
Further, no coalition can learn the private cards of a player against
his will (except for trivial conclusions). The corresponding cryptographic
problem, actually called ``Mental Poker'', has been studied since 1979
(Shamir, Rivest, and Adleman) by many authors.
LibTMCG provides the first practical implementation of such protocols.

The security and the fairness rely on advanced cryptographic techniques---the
so-called zero-knowledge proofs. Using these `building blocks' the high-level
protocols minimize the effect of coalitions and preserve the confidentiality
of the players' strategy, i.e., the players are not required to reveal their
cards at the end of the game to show that they did not cheat. This important
property is often required in card games like Poker.


LibTMCG is @emph{Free Software} according to the definition
of the @uref{http://www.fsf.org/licensing/essays/free-sw.html,,
Free Software Foundation}. The source code is released under
the GNU @emph{General Public License} Version 2.

@menu
* Further Reading::
* Getting Started::
* Preliminaries::
* Preparation::
* Header Files and Name Spaces::
* Building Sources::
* Initializing the Library::
@end menu

@c **********************************************************
@node Further Reading
@section Further Reading
The cryptographic background and a detailed discussion of
the implementation issues are beyond the scope of this manual.
The interested reader is referred to the following papers:
@quotation [Sc98]
	@sc{Christian Schindelhauer}.
	@emph{Toolbox for Mental Card Games.}@*
	Technical Report A-98-14, University of L@"ubeck, 1998.@*
	@uref{http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/@/schindelhauer98toolbox.html}
@end quotation
@quotation [BS03]
	@sc{Adam Barnett} and @sc{Nigel P. Smart}.
	@emph{Mental Poker Revisited.}@*
	In K.G. Paterson (Ed.): Cryptography and Coding 2003,
	Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2898, pp. 370--383, 2003.
@end quotation
@quotation [Gr05]
	@sc{Jens Groth}.
	@emph{A Verifiable Secret Shuffle of Homomorphic Encryptions.}@*
	Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2005/246, 2005.@*
	@uref{http://eprint.iacr.org/@/2005/@/246}
@end quotation
@quotation [St04]
	@sc{Heiko Stamer}.
	@emph{Kryptographische Skatrunde.} (in German)@*
	Offene Systeme (ISSN 1619-0114), 4:10--30, 2004.@*
	@uref{http://www.gaos.org/@/~stamer/@/OS-4-2004-openskat_rev2005.pdf}
@end quotation
@quotation [St05]
	@sc{Heiko Stamer}.
	@emph{Efficient Electronic Gambling: An Extended Implementation
	of the Toolbox for Mental Card Games.}@*
	Proceedings of the Western European Workshop on Research in
	Cryptology (WEWoRC 2005), Lecture Notes in Informatics P-74,
	pp. 1--12, 2005.@*
	@uref{http://www.gaos.org/@/~stamer/@/WEWoRC2005_proc.pdf}
@end quotation

@c **********************************************************
@node Getting Started
@section Getting Started
This manual describes the application programming interface
of LibTMCG. All relevant data types, public classes and
security parameters are explained. The reader should have
an advanced knowledge in applied cryptography and C++
programming. Reference is made at this point to the famous
@cite{Handbook of Applied Cryptography} for a brief
introduction.

This document follows, in style and rarely in phrasing,
the @cite{Reference Manual of the GNU Crypto Library}.
Thus don't be surprised, if you recognize some obvious
analogies.

@c **********************************************************
@node Preliminaries
@section Preliminaries
The most card games are played with a regular card deck, i.e.,
cards where the pattern on the front side (face) determines the card
type (e.g.
@iftex
the King of Spades@tie{}@math{\spadesuit},
@end iftex
@ifnottex
the King of Spades,
@end ifnottex
@iftex
the Seven of Hearts@tie{}@math{\heartsuit},
@end iftex
@ifnottex
the Seven of Hearts,
@end ifnottex
@iftex
the Ace of Club@tie{}@math{\clubsuit},
@end iftex
@ifnottex
the Ace of Club,
@end ifnottex
@iftex
or the Jack of Diamonds@tie{}@math{\diamondsuit})
@end iftex
@ifnottex
or the Jack of Diamonds)
@end ifnottex
and where the back sides of all cards are indistinguishable.
Only such `regular' card decks are supported by LibTMCG.

@menu
* Terminology::
* Security::
@end menu

@node Terminology
@subsection Terminology
@cindex Terminology
The following list defines some common terms that are subsequently used
in the manual.

@quotation Player
@cindex Player
	A @emph{player} is an active participant in an electronic card
	game.
@end quotation

@quotation Observer
@cindex Observer
	An @emph{observer} is an passive party who watches the	game.
@end quotation

@quotation Card
@cindex Card
	The term @emph{card} means the electronic representation of a playing
	card.
@end quotation

@quotation Card Type
@cindex Card Type
	The @emph{card type} is a nonnegative integer which corresponds
	to the pattern on the picture side of a real playing card. We
	assume here that such a natural encoding always exists.
@end quotation

@quotation Masking
@cindex Masking
	@emph{Masking} is a process which aim is to transform the card
	representation such that the input card and the result cannot
	be linked (except for trivial conclusions). Roughly speaking, masking
	is the (re-)encryption of a card representation such that the
	original card type is preserved.
@end quotation

@quotation Card Secret
@cindex Card Secret
	The @emph{card secret} contains all random values used in a masking
	operation. These values must be kept secret until the card is
	publicly revealed. Otherwise the corresponding output of the masking
	transformation is linkable and other players may learn the card type.
@end quotation

@quotation Open Card
@cindex Open Card
	An @emph{open card} is a card whose type can be easily
	determined by all players and usually by observers as well.
@end quotation

@quotation Masked Card
@cindex Masked Card
	A @emph{masked card} (also known as face-down card) is a card whose
	type is unknown to a subset of players. It can be only revealed, if
	all players cooperate in a common computation of the type.
@end quotation

@quotation Private Card
@cindex Private Card
	A @emph{private card} is a card whose type is only known to its
	owner. As long as the owner does not corporate the type of the
	private card stays hidden to all other players (except for trivial
	conclusions).
@end quotation

@quotation Stack
@cindex Stack
	A @emph{stack} is a not necessarily disjoint subset of the whole
	card deck.
@end quotation

@quotation Prover and Verifier
@cindex Prover
@cindex Verifier
	The @emph{prover} is a player who shows some property to another
	party called @emph{verifier}. For example, he wants to show that
	a masking operation was performed correctly, i.e., the card type
	is preserved by the transformation.
@end quotation

@node Security
@subsection Security
@cindex Security
``Mental Poker'' solutions cannot prevent that malicious players
exchange private information, for example, by telephone or Internet
chat. Cryptographic protocols can only minimize the effect of such
colluding parties and should try to protect the confidentiality
for honest players. But even this small protection often relies on
number-theoretical assumptions which are only believed to be true,
i.e., problems like factoring products of large primes or computing
discrete logarithms are only believed to be hard. That means, strict
mathematical proofs@footnote{For instance, a ``tight reduction'' to
a known hard problem in the sense of complexity theory.} for the
hardness of these problems are not known, and it is not very likely
that such proofs will ever be found. However, almost all public key
cryptosystems rely on such assumptions and therefore you should not
care about this issue, as long as reasonable security parameters are
chosen.

LibTMCG was designed to provide security in the ``honest-but-curious''
(aka semi-honest) adversary model. That means, all participants follow
the protocol instructions properly but they may gather information and
share them within a coalition to obtain a game advantage. Thus we are
not concerned with robustness and availability issues which are hard to
solve in asynchronous environments like the Internet. However, the most
operations are verifiable such that cheating can be detected. To obtain
this verifiability, the protocols deploy so-called zero-knowledge proofs
which yield no further knowledge but the validity of a statement. The
soundness error of these proofs is bounded by a security parameter @math{t}.
Depending on your application scenario this parameter should be chosen such
that there is a reasonable tradeoff between the cheating probability (which
is less or equal than @math{2^{-t}}) and the produced computational and
communication complexity.

Unfortunately, in practice there is a substantial problem with the detection
of cheaters. Reliable cheater detection requires that an authenticated
broadcast channel has been established, where all players have read/write
access. LibTMCG does not yet contain the necessary protocols (reliable
broadcast or even atomic broadcast) for creating such a channel. Thus you
should take into account that not necessarily the player acting as prover
is the source of
evil, if a verification procedure fails. This level of uncertainty is
also a reason for our restricted adversary model.

Note that it is not known, whether the used protocols retain their
zero-knowledge property, if they are composed and executed in a concurrent
setting. Thus the application programmer should be careful and avoid parallel
protocol sessions. It is an open research project to create a protocol suite
whose security can be proven in the UC-framework of Canetti (see @emph{Universally
Composable Security: A New Paradigm for Cryptographic Protocols}, Cryptology
ePrint Archive: Report 2000/067). Furthermore, the protocols should employ
concurrent zero-knowledge proofs (see Dwork, Naor, Sahai: @emph{Concurrent
Zero-Knowledge}, Journal of the ACM 51(6):851--898, 2004).

LibTMCG was carefully implemented with respect to timing attacks (see Kocher:
@emph{Cryptanalysis of Diffie-Hellman, RSA, DSS, and other cryptosystems using
timing attacks}, CRYPTO@tie{}'95, LNCS@tie{}963, 1995). Therefore we loose
some efficiency, e.g., during modular exponentiations. However, it is strongly
recommended to leave the timing attack protection turned on, unless you know
exactly where it is really not needed.

@quotation Security Advice
@cindex Security Advice
We have implemented all cryptographic primitives according to the cited
research papers and to the best of our knowledge. However, we can not eliminate
any possibility of contained flaws or bugs, because the implementation of
such complex protocols is always an error-prone process. Thus we encourage
readers with advanced cryptographic background to review the source code of
LibTMCG. Please report any complaint or correction proposal.
@end quotation

@c **********************************************************
@node Preparation
@section Preparation
LibTMCG depends on three other basic libraries. Therefore you will
need the corresponding development files to build LibTMCG and your
application properly. The following list gives a short exposition
of the used features and specifies the required versions:
@itemize @bullet
	@item GNU Multiple Precision Arithmetic Library (@file{libgmp}),
		Version@tie{}@math{\ge}@tie{}4.1.0
		
		The library provides a powerful framework for performing
		arbitrary precision arithmetic on integers. Further reasons
		for choosing this dependency are the license compatibility,
		the portability, the vital maintenance, and of course, the
		reasonable performance.
		
	@item GNU Crypto Library (@file{libgcrypt}),
		Version@tie{}@math{\ge}@tie{}1.2.0
		
		The library provides some basic cryptographic algorithms
		(e.g. RIPEMD-160) and an easily accessible interface for
		cryptographically strong pseudo random numbers.
	
	@item GNU Privacy Guard Error Code Library (@file{libgpg-error}),
		Version@tie{}@math{\ge}@tie{}0.5
		
		This library defines common error values, e.g., returned by the
		GNU Crypto Library.
@end itemize
We suppose that the reader is familiar with these libraries
because their correct installation, configuration, and usage
is crucial to the security of the entire application.

@c **********************************************************
@node Header Files and Name Spaces
@section Header Files and Name Spaces
@cindex Header Files
@cindex Name Spaces
The interface definitions of classes, data types, and security
parameters@footnote{The security parameters are fixed at compile
time of LibTMCG. Please don't change anything unless you know
exactly what you are doing! Beside the apparent security concerns
you will probably break the compatibility with other LibTMCG
applications.} are provided by the central header file
@file{libTMCG.hh}. You have to include this file in all of your
sources, either directly or through some other included file.
Thus often you will simply write:

@example
#include <libTMCG.hh>
@end example

There are no uniform C++ name spaces for the most parts of the
library. Some classes and data types have the common prefix
@code{TMCG_*} resp. @code{VTMF_*} while others are composed of
the author names and an abbreviation of the title from the related
research paper. Further there are internally
used C functions which might produce conflicting names. These
function names are prepended by @code{mpz_*} because they are
extensions for the large integer support of the GNU Multiple
Precision Arithmetic Library.

@c **********************************************************
@node Building Sources
@section Building Sources
If you want to compile a source file including the @file{libTMCG.hh}
header, you must make sure that the compiler can find it in the
directory hierarchy. This is achieved by adding the path of the
corresponding directory to the compilers include file search path.

However, the path to the include file has been determined at the time
the source is configured. To solve this problem, LibTMCG ships with a
small helper program @command{libTMCG-config} that knows the path to the
include file and a few other configuration options. The options that
need to be added to the compiler invocation are output by the
@option{--cflags} option to @command{libTMCG-config}. The following
example shows how it can be used at the command line:

@example
g++ -c foo.cc `libTMCG-config --cflags`
@end example

Adding the output of @samp{libTMCG-config --cflags} to the compilers
command line will ensure that the compiler can find the LibTMCG header
file.

A similar problem occurs when linking your program with LibTMCG.
Again, the compiler has to find the library files. Therefore the
correct installation path has to be added to the library search path.
To achieve this, the option @option{--libs} of @command{libTMCG-config}
can be used. For convenience, this option also outputs all other stuff
that is required to link your program with LibTMCG (in particular,
the @samp{-lTMCG} option). 

The example shows how to link @file{foo.o} with LibTMCG to a program
called @file{foo}:

@example
g++ -o foo foo.o `libTMCG-config --libs`
@end example

Of course, you can also combine both examples to a single command by
calling the shell script @command{libTMCG-config} with both options:

@example
g++ -o foo foo.c `libTMCG-config --cflags --libs`
@end example

@c **********************************************************
@subsection Building Sources Using GNU Automake
You can use GNU Automake to obtain automatically generated
Makefiles. If you do so then you do not have to care about finding and
invoking the @command{libTMCG-config} script at all.
LibTMCG provides an Automake extension that does all the stupid work
for you.

@defmac AM_PATH_LIBTMCG (@ovar{minimum-version}, @ovar{action-if-found}, @ovar{action-if-not-found})
Check whether LibTMCG (at least version @var{minimum-version}, if given)
exists on the host system. If it is found, execute @var{action-if-found},
otherwise do @var{action-if-not-found}.

Additionally, the macro defines @code{LIBTMCG_CFLAGS} to the flags
needed for compilation in order to find the necessary header
files, and @code{LIBTMCG_LIBS} to the corresponding linker flags.
@end defmac

You can use the defined variables in your @file{Makefile.am} as follows:

@example
AM_CPPFLAGS = $(LIBTMCG_CFLAGS)
LDADD = $(LIBTMCG_LIBS)
@end example

@c **********************************************************
@node Initializing the Library
@section Initializing the Library
@cindex Initialization
The first step is the initialization of LibTMCG. The following
function must be invoked early in your program, i.e., before
you make use of any other capability of LibTMCG.

@deftypefun bool init_libTMCG ()
The function checks whether the installed third-party libraries
match their required versions. Further it initializes them
and returns @code{true}, if everything was sound. Otherwise
@code{false} is returned and an appropriate error message
is sent to @code{std::cerr}.
@end deftypefun

Additionally, the function @code{version_libTMCG} returns a string
containing the version number of the library in a common format. It
is strongly recommended to check, whether the installed version
matches your requirements.

@deftypefun std::string version_libTMCG ()
This function returns the version of the library in the
format @emph{major.minor.revision}.
@end deftypefun

@node Application Programming Interface
@c **********************************************************
@c *************************  API  **************************
@c **********************************************************
@chapter Application Programming Interface

@menu
* Preprocessor Defined Global Symbols::
* Data Types and Classes::
@end menu

@c **********************************************************
@node Preprocessor Defined Global Symbols
@section Preprocessor Defined Global Symbols
@cindex Security Parameters
Please note that the following macros are fixed at compile
time of LibTMCG and cannot be changed by your application.
They are only provided here for informational purposes.

@defmac TMCG_MR_ITERATIONS
	Defines the number of iterations for the Miller-Rabin primality test.
	The default value is @code{64} which implies a soundness error
	probability @math{{} \le 4^{-64}}.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_GROTH_L_E
	Defines the security parameter @math{\ell_e} of Groth's interactive
	shuffle argument@tie{}[Gr05]. The default value is @code{80} which
	implies a soundness error probability @math{{} \le 2^{-80}}. For the
	intended purposes of LibTMCG this bound seems to be reasonable.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_DDH_SIZE
Defines the security parameter (field size in bit) of the group
@math{G} which is used by the card encoding scheme of Barnett and
Smart@tie{}[BS03]. The underlying assumptions are DDH, CDH, and DLOG.
The default value is @code{1024}.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_DLSE_SIZE
Defines the security parameter (subgroup size in bit) of the group
@math{G} which is used by the card encoding scheme of Barnett and
Smart@tie{}[BS03]. The underlying assumptions are DLSE (related to DDH)
and DLOG. The default value is @code{160}.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_GCRY_MD_ALGO
Defines the message digest algorithm for digital signatures and
the Fiat-Shamir heuristic (see Fiat, Shamir: @emph{How to prove yourself:
Practical Solutions to Identification and Signature Problems}, 1986).
The security of the most non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs (NIZK)
is related to the so-called random oracle model, i.e., we suppose that the
instantiated hash function behaves like an ideal random function
(which cannot hold in a real world scenario). However, this assumption
seems to be reasonable, if the hash function is collision-resistant
and carefully implemented. The default value @code{GCRY_MD_RMD160}
@footnote{This is a constant defined by the GNU Crypto Library.}
chooses the hash algorithm RIPEMD-160 (see Dobbertin, Bosselaers,
Preneel: @emph{RIPEMD-160, a strengthened version of RIPEMD}, 1996)
which has an output length of 160 bit. Thus we gain a security level
of approximately @math{2^{80}}, assuming that a birthday-attack is 
the best known attack against this hash function.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_KEYID_SIZE
Defines the length (in characters w.r.t. @code{TMCG_MPZ_IO_BASE})
for the distinctive suffix of the unique TMCG key identifier. The
default value is @code{8} which spans a reasonable name space for
at least @math{2^{20}} different TMCG keys (see @code{TMCG_PublicKey}).
However, sometimes it is required to use even smaller sizes.

Each key identifier starts with the string @code{"ID"} followed by
the decimal encoded value of @code{TMCG_KEYID_SIZE} and the appended
carret symbol @code{"^"}. The final suffix contains
@code{TMCG_KEYID_SIZE} alphanumerical characters from the self
signature of TMCG key. The signature has enough entropy included
to be used as unique key identifier.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_KEY_NIZK_STAGE1
Defines the security parameter (number of iterations) of the NIZK
proof (stage 1) which convince all verifiers that the TMCG key was
correctly generated. The default value is @code{16} which implies
a soundness error probability @math{{} \le d^{-16}}, where
@math{d = {\rm gcd}(m, \phi(m))}. This parameter is only relevant for the
card encoding scheme of Schindelhauer.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_KEY_NIZK_STAGE2
Defines the security parameter (number of iterations) of the NIZK
proof (stage 2) which convince all verifiers that the TMCG key was
correctly generated. The default value is @code{128} which implies
a soundness error probability @math{{} \le 2^{-128}}.
This parameter is only relevant for the card encoding scheme of
Schindelhauer.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_KEY_NIZK_STAGE3
Defines the security parameter (number of iterations) of the NIZK
proof (stage 3) which convince all verifiers that the TMCG key was
correctly generated. The default value is @code{128} which implies
a soundness error probability @math{{} \le 2^{-128}}.
This parameter is only relevant for the card encoding scheme of
Schindelhauer.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_LIBGCRYPT_VERSION
Defines the required minimum version number of the GNU Crypto Library.
The default value is @code{"1.2.0"}. During the initialization of
LibTMCG (see @code{init_libTMCG}) it is checked, whether the
version number of the linked shared object fulfills this condition.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_LIBGMP_VERSION
Defines the required minimum version number of the GNU Multiple Precision
Arithmetic Library. The default value is @code{"4.1.0"}. During the
initialization of LibTMCG (see @code{init_libTMCG}) it is checked,
whether the version number provided by the header file @file{gmp.h}
and used at compile time of LibTMCG fulfills this condition.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_MAX_CARDS
Defines the maximum number of stackable cards.
The default value is @code{128}.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_MAX_PLAYERS
Defines the maximum number of players.
The default value is @code{32}.
This parameter is only relevant for the card encoding scheme of
Schindelhauer.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_MAX_TYPEBITS
Defines the maximum number of bits to represent the card type in the
scheme of Schindelhauer. On the other hand, this value determines
the maximum size of the message space in the scheme of Barnett and
Smart. The default value is @code{8} which implies that 256 different
card types are possible.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_MPZ_IO_BASE
Defines the input and output base of the @code{std::iostream} operators
@code{<<} and @code{>>} which are used to encode large integers
(@code{mpz_t}). The default value is @code{36} which is currently
the largest base supported by the GNU Multiple Precision Arithmetic Library.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_PRAB_K0
Defines the security parameter @math{k_0} (in characters) of the PRab
scheme (see Bellare, Rogaway: @emph{The Exact Security of Digital Signatures
-- How to Sign with RSA and Rabin}, 1996). The default value is @code{20}
which implies a security level around @math{2^{80}}.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_QRA_SIZE
Defines the security parameter (size of the modulus @math{m = p \cdot q}
in bit) of the TMCG key. The underlying assumptions are QRA and FACTOR.
The default value is @code{1024}. This parameter is only relevant
for TMCG keys and Schindelhauer's encoding scheme.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_SAEP_S0
Defines the security parameter @math{s_0} (in characters) of the Rabin-SAEP
scheme (see Boneh: @emph{Simplified OAEP for the RSA and Rabin Functions},
2002). The default value is @code{20} which implies a security around @math{2^{80}}
against @acronym{CCA, Chosen Ciphertext Attacks}.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_HASH_COMMITMENT
Defines whether shortened commitments are used in the shuffle verification
procedure of Schindelhauer. The default value is @code{true}, because it
will decrease the communication complexity significantly. However, as an
immediate consequence the soundness property is violated, if the used
hash function @code{TMCG_GCRY_MD_ALGO} is broken.
@end defmac

@defmac TMCG_MAX_FPOWM_T
Defines the maximum size of admissible exponents (in bit) used by fast
exponentiation procedures. The default value is @code{2048}. Note that
this parameter has a strong influence on the amount of memory allocated
by LibTMCG since it determines the size of the precomputed tables.
However, it should be at least greater than @code{TMCG_DDH_SIZE} and
@code{TMCG_QRA_SIZE}.
@end defmac

@c **********************************************************
@node Data Types and Classes
@section Data Types and Classes
This section describes all public data types and classes that are
necessary to create a secure card game. Private methods and only
internally used members are not explained.

@menu
* Data Types::
* Classes::
@end menu

@node Data Types
@subsection Data Types
@cindex Data Types
LibTMCG provides several data structures for cards, stacks, and cryptographic keys.

@subsubsection Encoding Schemes for Cards
@cindex Card Encoding Schemes
There exist two different encoding schemes that can be used
for the digital representation of playing cards. In the
scheme of Schindelhauer@tie{}[Sc98] the type of a card is
shared among the players through bit-wise representation
by quadratic (non-)residues. Thus the security relies on
the well-known @acronym{QRA, Quadratic Residuosity Assumption}.
Unfortunately, the size of a card grows linearly in the
number of players and logarithmically in the number of
card types. Recently the much more efficient
solution of Barnett and Smart@tie{}[BS03] has been
implemented. This encoding works on a cyclic group of
prime order and requires that the @acronym{DDH, Decisional
Diffie-Hellman Assumption} holds there.

For both schemes LibTMCG provides a structure whose name contains the
suffix @code{Card}. This data type is used to represent an open
or even a masked card. Further, there is a corresponding structure whose
name contains the suffix @code{CardSecret}. This data type is
used to represent the secret values involved in a card masking operation.

Because of the reduced computational and communication complexity
(see@tie{}[St05] for details) the usage of the second card
encoding scheme, i.e. @code{VTMF_Card} and @code{VTMF_CardSecret}, is
highly recommended.

@deftp {Data type} TMCG_Card
	This @code{struct} represents a card in the encoding scheme
	of Schindelhauer@tie{}[Sc98]. The type of the card is shared
	among the players by quadratic residues and non-residues,
	respectively. Thus the security relies on the Quadratic
	Residuosity Assumption.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_Card {std::vector< std::vector<MP_INT> >} z
		This @math{k\times w}-matrix encodes the type of the
		corresponding card in a shared way. For each of the
		@math{k} players there is a separate row and for each of
		the @math{w} bits in the binary representation of the
		type there is a column. The elements are numbers from
		the group @math{{\bf Z}^{\circ}_{m_i}} where @math{m_i}
		is the public modulus of the @math{i}th player.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_Card TMCG_Card ()
		This default constructor initializes the card with an empty
		@math{1\times 1}-matrix. Later the method
		@code{TMCG_Card::resize} can be used to enlarge the
		card representation.
	@end defop
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_Card TMCG_Card (@code{size_t} k, @code{size_t} w)
		This constructor initializes the card with an empty
		@math{k\times w}-matrix. The parameter @var{k} is the
		number of players and @var{w} is the maximum number
		of bits used by the binary representation of the card
		type.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} TMCG_Card {} TMCG_Card (@code{const TMCG_Card&} that)
		This is a simple copy-constructor and @var{that} is the card to be
		copied.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Card TMCG_Card& = (@code{const TMCG_Card&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is the card to
		be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Card bool == (@code{const TMCG_Card&} that)
		This operator tests two card representations for equality.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Card bool != (@code{const TMCG_Card&} that)
		This operator tests two card representations for inequality.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Card void resize (@code{size_t} k, @code{size_t} w)
		This method resizes the representation of the card.
		The current content of the member @code{z} will be
		released and a new @math{k\times w}-matrix is created.
		The parameter @var{k} is the number of players and
		@var{w} is the maximum number of bits used by the binary
		representation of the card type.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Card bool import (@code{std::string} s)
		This method imports the content of the member @code{z} from
		the correctly formatted input string @var{s}. It returns
		@code{true}, if the import was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} TMCG_Card ~TMCG_Card ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Card std::ostream& << (@code{std::ostream&} out, @code{const TMCG_Card&} card)
	This operator exports the content of the member @code{z}
	(of the given @code{TMCG_Card} @var{card}) to the output
	stream @var{out}.
@end deftypeop

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Card std::istream& >> (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{TMCG_Card&} card)
	This operator imports the content of the member @code{z}
	(of the given @code{TMCG_Card} @var{card}) from the input
	stream @var{in}. The data has to be delimited by a newline
	character. The @code{failbit} of the stream is set, if any
	parse error occurred.
@end deftypeop

@deftp {Data type} TMCG_CardSecret
	This @code{struct} represents the secret used for a card masking
	operation in the original encoding scheme of Schindelhauer@tie{}[Sc98].
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_CardSecret {std::vector< std::vector<MP_INT> >} r
		This @math{k\times w}-matrix encodes the first part of the
		secret. For each of the @math{k} players there is a separate
		row and for each of the @math{w} bits in the binary representation
		of the corresponding card type there is a column. The elements are
		numbers from the group @math{{\bf Z}^{\circ}_{m_i}} where @math{m_i}
		is the public modulus of the @math{i}th player.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_CardSecret {std::vector< std::vector<MP_INT> >} b
		This @math{k\times w}-matrix encodes the second part of the
		secret. For each of the @math{k} players there is a separate
		row and for each of the @math{w} bits in the binary representation
		of the corresponding card type there is a column. The elements are
		simply numbers from @math{\{0, 1\}}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_CardSecret TMCG_CardSecret ()
		This default constructor initializes both members with an empty
		@math{1\times 1}-matrix. Later the method
		@code{TMCG_CardSecret::resize} can be used to enlarge the
		card representation.
	@end defop
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_CardSecret TMCG_CardSecret (@code{size_t} k, @code{size_t} w)
		This constructor initializes both members with an empty
		@math{k\times w}-matrix. The parameter @var{k} is the
		number of players and @var{w} is the maximum number
		of bits used by the binary representation of the
		corresponding card type.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} TMCG_CardSecret {} TMCG_CardSecret (@code{const TMCG_CardSecret&} that)
		This is a simple copy-constructor and @var{that} is the secret to be
		copied.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_CardSecret TMCG_CardSecret& = (@code{const TMCG_CardSecret&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is the secret to
		be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_CardSecret void resize (@code{size_t} k, @code{size_t} w)
		This method resizes the representation of the secret.
		The current content of the members @code{r} and @code{b}
		will be released and new @math{k\times w}-matrices are
		created. The parameter @var{k} is the number of players and
		@var{w} is the maximum number of bits used by the binary
		representation of the corresponding card type.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_CardSecret bool import (@code{std::string} s)
		This method imports the content of the members @code{r} and
		@code{b} from the correctly formatted input string @var{s}.
		It returns @code{true}, if the import was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} TMCG_CardSecret ~TMCG_CardSecret ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_CardSecret std::ostream& << (@code{std::ostream&} out, @code{const TMCG_CardSecret&} cardsecret)
	This operator exports the content of the members @code{r}
	and @code{b} (of the given @code{TMCG_CardSecret}
	@var{cardsecret}) to the output stream @var{out}.
@end deftypeop

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_CardSecret std::istream& >> (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{TMCG_CardSecret&} cardsecret)
	This operator imports the content of the members @code{r}
	and @code{b} (of the given @code{TMCG_CardSecret}
	@var{cardsecret}) from the input stream @var{in}.
	The data has to be delimited by a newline character.
	The @code{failbit} of the stream is set, if any parse error
	occurred.
@end deftypeop

@deftp {Data type} VTMF_Card
	This @code{struct} represents a card in the encoding scheme
	of Barnett and Smart@tie{}[BS03]. Here we use the discrete logarithm
	based instantiation of their general cryptographic primitive
	@acronym{VTMF, Verifiable @var{k}-out-of-@var{k} Threshold Masking
	Function}. The security relies on the DDH assumption in the
	underlying abelian group @math{G}.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} VTMF_Card {mpz_t} c_1
		This is the first part of the encrypted card type.
		It is an element from the underlying group @math{G}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} VTMF_Card {mpz_t} c_2
		This is the second part of the encrypted card type.
		It is also an element from the underlying group @math{G}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} VTMF_Card VTMF_Card ()
		This default constructor initializes an empty card where
		the members @code{c_1} and @code{c_2} are set to zero.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} VTMF_Card {} VTMF_Card (@code{const VTMF_Card&} that)
		This is a simple copy-constructor and @var{that} is the
		card to be copied.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} VTMF_Card VTMF_Card& = (@code{const VTMF_Card&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is
		the card to be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} VTMF_Card bool == (@code{const VTMF_Card&} that)
		This operator tests two card representations for equality.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} VTMF_Card bool != (@code{const VTMF_Card&} that)
		This operator tests two card representations for inequality.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod VTMF_Card bool import (@code{std::string} s)
		This method imports the content of the members @code{c_1}
		and @code{c_2} from a correctly formatted input string
		@var{s}. It returns @code{true}, if the import was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} VTMF_Card ~VTMF_Card ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftypeop {Operator} VTMF_Card std::ostream& << (@code{std::ostream&} out, @code{const VTMF_Card&} card)
	This operator exports the content of the members @code{c_1}
	and @code{c_2} (of the given @code{VTMF_Card} @var{card})
	to the output stream @var{out}.
@end deftypeop

@deftypeop {Operator} VTMF_Card std::istream& >> (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{VTMF_Card&} card)
	This operator imports the content of the members @code{c_1}
	and @code{c_2} (of the given @code{VTMF_Card} @var{card})
	from the input stream @var{in}. The data has to be delimited
	by a newline character. The @code{failbit} of the stream is
	set, if any parse error occurred.
@end deftypeop

@deftp {Data type} VTMF_CardSecret
	This @code{struct} represents the secrets used in the card masking
	operation by the encoding scheme of Barnett and Smart@tie{}[BS03].
	
	@deftypecv {Member} VTMF_CardSecret {mpz_t} r
		This member is the exponent (randomizer) used in the masking operation.
		It should be chosen uniformly and randomly from @math{{\bf Z}_q}
		where @math{q} is the order of the finite abelian group @math{G}
		for which the DDH assumption holds.
		
		According to the results of Koshiba and Kurosawa (see @emph{Short Exponent
		Diffie-Hellman Problems}, PKC@tie{}2004, LNCS@tie{}2947) the length of
		this exponent can be shorten to a more efficient size (e.g. 160@tie{}bit),
		if the corresponding generator of @math{G} is adjusted as well. Under the
		additional @acronym{DLSE, Discrete Logarithm with Short Exponents}
		assumption the DDH problem in @math{G} seems to be still hard.
		By such an optimization trick we gain a great performance advantage for
		almost all modular exponentiations that are computed during the masking
		operation, if the VTMF primitive was instantiated by the later explained
		class @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR}. Furthermore, the size of the
		card secret is substantially reduced which results in an improved
		communication complexity.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} VTMF_CardSecret VTMF_CardSecret ()
		This default constructor initializes the secret with an
		empty member @code{r}.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} VTMF_CardSecret {} VTMF_CardSecret (@code{const VTMF_CardSecret&} that)
		This is a simple copy-constructor and @var{that} is the secret to be
		copied.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} VTMF_CardSecret VTMF_CardSecret& = (@code{const VTMF_CardSecret&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is the secret to
		be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod VTMF_CardSecret bool import (@code{std::string} s)
		This method imports the content of the member @code{r}
		from the correctly formatted input string @var{s}.
		It returns @code{true}, if the import was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} VTMF_CardSecret ~VTMF_CardSecret ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftypeop {Operator} VTMF_CardSecret std::ostream& << (@code{std::ostream&} out, @code{const VTMF_CardSecret&} cardsecret)
	This operator exports the content of the member @code{r}
	(of the given @code{VTMF_CardSecret} @var{cardsecret})
	to the output stream @var{out}.
@end deftypeop

@deftypeop {Operator} VTMF_CardSecret std::istream& >> (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{VTMF_CardSecret&} cardsecret)
	This operator imports the content of the member @code{r}
	(of the given @code{VTMF_CardSecret} @var{cardsecret})
	from the input stream @var{in}. The data has to be
	delimited by a newline character. The @code{failbit} of
	the stream is set, if any parse error occurred.
@end deftypeop

@subsubsection Stacks
@cindex Stacks
All of the following data types are generic containers that can be
instantiated as C++ templates with the former explained @code{Card}
and @code{CardSecret} data types, respectively. Note the maximum
number of stackable data is upper-bounded by @code{TMCG_MAX_CARDS}.
There is no error reported, if this limit is exceeded.

@deftp {Data type} TMCG_Stack<@var{CardType}>
	This @code{struct} is a simple container for cards of the specified
	@code{@var{CardType}}. Currently, the elements can be either of type
	@code{TMCG_Card} or @code{VTMF_Card} depending on which kind of encoding
	scheme is used. The @code{TMCG_Stack} structure is mainly used to represent
	a stack of masked cards, i.e., playing cards that are stacked in a face-down
	manner. It can be either a public stack where all participants have access to
	or even a private stack, e.g. the players' hand. If the corresponding
	card types are known it can also serve as an ``open stack'', although
	@code{TMCG_OpenStack} is more suitable in that case.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_Stack {std::vector<@var{CardType}>} stack
		This is the container that is used internally for storing the cards.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_Stack TMCG_Stack ()
		This default constructor initializes an empty stack.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Stack TMCG_Stack& = (@code{const TMCG_Stack<@var{CardType}>&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is the stack to
		be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Stack bool == (@code{const TMCG_Stack<@var{CardType}>&} that)
		This operator tests two stacks for equality. It checks whether the
		sizes of the stacks and the contained cards are equal with respect to
		the implied order.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Stack bool != (@code{const TMCG_Stack<@var{CardType}>&} that)
		This operator tests two stacks for inequality. It returns @code{true}, if
		either the sizes does not match or at least two corresponding cards are
		not equal.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Stack {const @var{CardType}&} [] (@code{size_t} n)
		This operator provides read-only random access to the contained cards.
		It returns a const-reference to the @var{n}th card from the top of the stack.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Stack {@var{CardType}&} [] (@code{size_t} n)
		This operator provides random access to the contained cards.
		It returns a reference to the @var{n}th card from the top of the stack.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack size_t size ()
		This method returns the size of the stack.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack void push (@code{const @var{CardType}&} c)
		This method pushes the card @var{c} to the back of the stack.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack void push (@code{const TMCG_Stack<@var{CardType}>&} s)
		This method pushes the stack @var{s} to the back of the stack.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack void push (@code{const TMCG_OpenStack<@var{CardType}>&} s)
		This method pushes the cards of the open stack @var{s} to the back
		of the stack.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack bool empty ()
		This method returns @code{true}, if the stack is empty.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack bool pop (@code{@var{CardType}&} c)
		This method removes a card from the back and stores the data in @var{c}.
		It returns @code{true}, if the stack was not empty and thus @var{c}
		contains useful data.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack void clear ()
		This method clears the stack, i.e., it removes all cards.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack bool find (@code{const @var{CardType}&} c)
		This method returns @code{true}, if the card @var{c} was found in the
		stack.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack bool remove (@code{const @var{CardType}&} c)
		This method removes the top-most card from the stack which is equal to
		@var{c}. It returns @code{true}, if the card was found and successfully
		removed.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack size_t removeAll (@code{const @var{CardType}&} c)
		This method removes every card from the stack which is equal to @var{c}.
		It returns the number of removed cards.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_Stack bool import (@code{std::string} s)
		This method imports the stack from the correctly formatted input string
		@var{s}. It returns @code{true}, if the import was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} TMCG_Stack ~TMCG_Stack ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Stack std::ostream& << (@code{std::ostream&} out, @code{const TMCG_Stack<@var{CardType}>&} stack)
	This operator exports the given @var{stack} to the output stream @var{out}.
@end deftypeop

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_Stack std::istream& >> (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{TMCG_Stack<@var{CardType}>&} stack)
	This operator imports the given @var{stack} from the input stream @var{in}.
	The data has to be delimited by a newline character. The @code{failbit} of
	the stream is set, if any parse error occurred.
@end deftypeop

@deftp {Data type} TMCG_OpenStack<@var{CardType}>
	This @code{struct} is a simple container for cards of the specified
	@code{@var{CardType}} whose types are known. The elements are pairs where
	the first component is the type and the second component is the corresponding
	card. The card type is represented by a @code{size_t} integer. Currently, the
	cards can be either of type @code{TMCG_Card} or @code{VTMF_Card} depending on
	which kind of encoding scheme is used.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_OpenStack {std::vector<std::pair<size_t, @var{CardType}> >} stack
		This is the container that is used internally for storing the pairs.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_OpenStack TMCG_OpenStack ()
		This default constructor initializes an empty stack.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_OpenStack TMCG_OpenStack& = (@code{const TMCG_OpenStack<@var{CardType}>&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is the stack to
		be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_OpenStack bool == (@code{const TMCG_OpenStack<@var{CardType}>&} that)
		This operator tests two stacks for equality. It checks whether the types,
		the sizes, and the contained cards are equal with respect to the stack order.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_OpenStack bool != (@code{const TMCG_OpenStack<@var{CardType}>&} that)
		This operator tests two stacks for inequality. It returns @code{true}, if
		either the sizes resp. types does not match or at least two corresponding cards
		are not equal.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_OpenStack {const std::pair<size_t, @var{CardType}>&} [] (@code{size_t} n)
		This operator provides read-only random access to the contained pairs.
		It returns a const-reference to the @var{n}th pair from the top of the stack.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_OpenStack {std::pair<size_t, @var{CardType}>&} [] (@code{size_t} n)
		This operator provides random access to the contained pairs.
		It returns a reference to the @var{n}th pair from the top of the stack.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack size_t size ()
		This method returns the size of the stack.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack void push (@code{const std::pair<size_t, @var{CardType}>&} p)
		This method pushes the pair @var{p} to the back of the stack. The first
		component is the type and the second component is the corresponding card
		representation.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack void push (@code{size_t} type, @code{const @var{CardType}&} c)
		This method pushes a pair to the back of the stack. The parameter @var{type}
		is the card type and @var{c} is the corresponding card representation.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack void push (@code{const TMCG_OpenStack<@var{CardType}>&} s)
		This method pushes the pairs of the stack @var{s} to the back
		of this stack.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack bool empty ()
		This method returns @code{true}, if the stack is empty.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack bool pop (@code{size_t&} type, @code{@var{CardType}&} c)
		This method removes a pair from the back of the stack. It stores the card type
		in @var{type} and the	representation in @var{c}. It returns @code{true}, if the stack
		was not empty and thus @var{type} and @var{c} contain useful data.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack void clear ()
		This method clears the stack, i.e., it removes all pairs.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack bool find (@code{size_t} type)
		This method returns @code{true}, if a pair with the first component @var{type} was
		found in the stack.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack bool remove (@code{size_t} type)
		This method removes the top-most pair with the first component @var{type} from the
		stack. It returns @code{true}, if such a pair was found and successfully removed.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack size_t removeAll (@code{size_t} type)
		This method removes every pair from the stack whose first component is equal to
		@var{type}. Further it returns the number of removed pairs.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_OpenStack bool move (@code{size_t} type, @code{TMCG_Stack<@var{CardType}>&} s)
	This method moves the top-most card representation of the given @var{type} to another
	stack @var{s}. It returns @code{true}, if such a pair was found and successfully moved.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} TMCG_OpenStack ~TMCG_OpenStack ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftp {Data type} TMCG_StackSecret<@var{CardSecretType}>
	This @code{struct} is a simple container for the secrets involved
	in the masking operation of cards. Additionally, the permutation
	of a corresponding shuffle of the stack is stored.
	The elements are pairs where the first component is a permutation
	index of type @code{size_t} and the second component is a card
	secret of the specified @code{@var{CardSecretType}}. Currently,
	such secrets can be either of type @code{TMCG_CardSecret} or
	@code{VTMF_CardSecret} depending on which kind of encoding scheme
	is used.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_StackSecret {std::vector<std::pair<size_t, @var{CardSecretType}> >} stack
		This is the container that is used internally for storing the pairs.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_StackSecret TMCG_StackSecret ()
		This default constructor initializes an empty stack secret.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_StackSecret TMCG_StackSecret& = (@code{const TMCG_StackSecret<@var{CardSecretType}>&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is the
		stack secret to be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_StackSecret {const std::pair<size_t, @var{CardSecretType}>&} [] (@code{size_t} n)
		This operator provides read-only random access to the contained pairs.
		It returns a const-reference to the @var{n}th pair from the top of the stack secret.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_StackSecret {std::pair<size_t, @var{CardSecretType}>&} [] (@code{size_t} n)
		This operator provides random access to the contained pairs.
		It returns a reference to the @var{n}th pair from the top of the stack secret.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_StackSecret size_t size ()
		This method returns the size of the stack secret.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_StackSecret void push (@code{size_t} index, @code{const @var{CardSecretType}&} cs)
		This method pushes a pair to the back of the stack secret. The parameter @var{index}
		is the permutation index and @var{cs} is the corresponding card secret.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_StackSecret void clear ()
		This method clears the stack secret, i.e., it removes all pairs.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_StackSecret size_t find_position (@code{size_t} index)
		This method searches for a given permutation index in the stack secret.
		It returns the corresponding position@footnote{According to the behavior
		of the @code{[]}-operator, the zero denotes always the top-most position.} in
		the stack secret, if the @var{index} was found. Otherwise, the size of
		the stack secret is returned. Please note that in this case the returned
		value is not a valid position for an access to the stack secret.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_StackSecret bool find (@code{size_t} index)
		This method searches for a given permutation index in the stack secret.
		It returns @code{true}, if such an @var{index} was found.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_StackSecret bool import (@code{std::string} s)
		This method imports the stack secret from a correctly formatted input string
		@var{s}. It returns @code{true}, if the import was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} TMCG_StackSecret ~TMCG_StackSecret ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_StackSecret std::ostream& << (@code{std::ostream&} out, @code{const TMCG_StackSecret<@var{CardSecretType}>&} stacksecret)
	This operator exports the given @var{stacksecret} to the output stream @var{out}.
@end deftypeop

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_StackSecret std::istream& >> (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{TMCG_StackSecret<@var{CardSecretType}>&} stacksecret)
	This operator imports the given @var{stacksecret} from the input stream @var{in}.
	The data has to be delimited by a newline character. The @code{failbit} of
	the stream is set, if any parse error occurred.
@end deftypeop

@subsubsection Cryptographic Keys
@cindex Keys
LibTMCG only provides corresponding data types for keys used by the encoding
scheme of
Schindelhauer@tie{}[Sc98], because it is not efficient to perform the
key generation in every new game session. Furthermore, in general you
can encrypt and sign messages to ensure confidentiality and integrity,
even if the scheme of Barnett and Smart@tie{}[BS03] has been applied for
the card encoding. Therefore these structures may be of independent interest,
for example to establish authenticated communication channels between players.
However, like for all public key cryptosystems a trusted @acronym{PKI, Public
Key Infrastructure} is needed. This might not be a serious requirement in
distributed game environments, because the players can compare their key
fingerprints
by telephone or a service provider can issue public key certificates.

@deftp {Data type} TMCG_SecretKey
	This @code{struct} represents the secret part of the TMCG key. The
	underlying public key cryptosystem is due to Rabin with minor
	modifications for encryption padding (SAEP scheme
	of Boneh) and digital signatures (PRab scheme of Bellare and Rogaway).
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} name
		This string contains the name or a pseudonym of the key owner.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} email
		This string contains the email address of the key owner.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} type
		This string contains information about the key type. The common
		prefix is @code{TMCG/RABIN}. It is followed by the decimal encoded
		bit size of the modulus @math{m}. The suffix @code{NIZK} signals
		that the correctness of the key is shown by an appended non-interactive
		zero-knowledge proof. The single parts are separated by underscore
		characters @code{_}, e.g., @code{TMCG/RABIN_1024_NIZK} has the correct
		form. However, the suffix can be left empty, if the key is
		only used for encryption and signing (non-NIZK key).
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} nizk
		This string contains two stages of the non-interactive zero-knowledge
		proof of Gennaro, Micciancio, and Rabin (@emph{An Efficient Non-Interactive
		Statistical Zero-Knowledge Proof System for Quasi-Safe Prime Products},
		ACM@tie{}CCS@tie{}1998). The proof shows that @math{m} was correctly
		generated as product of two primes both congruent to 3 (modulo 4).
		Further there is another non-interactive zero-knowledge proof appended
		which shows that the condition @math{y\in{\bf NQR}^\circ_m} holds.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} sig
		This string contains the self signature of the public key.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {mpz_t} m
		This is the public modulus @math{m = p \cdot q} which is the product
		of two secret primes @math{p} and @math{q}. The size of @math{m}
		is determined by the security parameter @code{TMCG_QRA_SIZE}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {mpz_t} y
		This is the public quadratic non-residue @math{y\in {\bf NQR}^\circ_m}
		which is used in several zero-knowledge proofs of Schindelhauer's
		encoding scheme@tie{}[Sc98].
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {mpz_t} p
		This is the secret prime number @math{p} which is a factor of the
		modulus @math{m}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_SecretKey {mpz_t} q
		This is the secret prime number @math{q} which is a factor of the
		modulus @math{m}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_SecretKey TMCG_SecretKey ()
		This default constructor initializes an empty secret key.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} TMCG_SecretKey {} TMCG_SecretKey (@code{const std::string&} n, @code{const std::string&} e, @code{unsigned long int} keysize @code{=TMCG_QRA_SIZE}, @code{bool} nizk_key @code{=true})
		This constructor generates a new secret key where @var{n} is the name or a
		pseudonym of the owner, @var{e} is a corresponding email address, 
		@var{keysize} is the desired bit length of the modulus @math{m}, and @var{nizk_key} indicates whether or not a NIZK proof will be appended. The
		default value of the third argument is set to @code{TMCG_QRA_SIZE},
		if @var{keysize} is omitted in the call. The default value of the fourth argument is set to @code{true}, whenever it is omitted in the call. Depending on @var{keysize} and @var{nizk_key}
		the generation is a very time-consuming task and dots are sent to
		@code{std::cerr} as a progress indicator.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} TMCG_SecretKey {} TMCG_SecretKey (@code{const std::string&} s)
		This constructor initializes the key from a correctly formatted
		input string @var{s}.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} TMCG_SecretKey {} TMCG_SecretKey (@code{const TMCG_SecretKey&} that)
		This is a simple copy-constructor and @var{that} is the key to be copied.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_SecretKey TMCG_SecretKey& = (@code{const TMCG_SecretKey&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is the key to be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey bool check ()
		This method tests whether the self signature is valid and whether the
		non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs are sound. It returns @code{true},
		if all checks have been successfully passed. Due to the computational
		complexity of the verification procedure these checks are extremely
		time-consuming.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} fingerprint ()
		This method returns the fingerprint of the key. The fingerprint is the
		hexadecimal notation of the hash value (algorithm @code{TMCG_GCRY_MD_ALGO})
		on the members @code{name}, @code{email}, @code{type}, @code{m}, @code{y},
		@code{nizk}, and @code{sig}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} selfid ()
		This method returns the real value of the self signature. The string
		@code{ERROR} is returned, if any parse error occurred. The string
		@code{SELFSIG-SELFSIG-SELFSIG-SELFSIG-SELFSIG-SELFSIG} is returned,
		if the self signature @code{sig} was empty.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} keyid (@code{size_t} size @code{=TMCG_KEYID_SIZE})
		This method returns the unique key identifier of length @var{size}.
		The default value of the first argument is set to @code{TMCG_KEYID_SIZE},
		if @var{size} is omitted in the call.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey {size_t} keyid_size (@code{const std::string&} s)
		This method returns the length of the unique key identifier @var{s}.
		Zero is returned, if any parse error occurred.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} sigid (@code{std::string} s)
		This method returns the unique key identifier which is included in the
		signature @var{s}. The string @code{ERROR} is returned, if any parse
		error occurred.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey bool import (@code{std::string} s)
		This method imports the key from a correctly formatted input string
		@var{s}. It returns @code{true}, if the import was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey	bool decrypt (@code{char*} value, @code{std::string} s)
		This method decrypts the given encryption packet @var{s} and stores
		the content in @var{value} which is a pointer to a character array
		of size @code{TMCG_SAEP_S0}. The method returns @code{true}, if the
		decryption was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} sign (@code{const std::string&} data)
		This method returns a digital signature on @var{data}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey {std::string} encrypt (@code{const char*} value)
		This method encrypts the content of @var{value} which is a pointer to a
		character array of size @code{TMCG_SAEP_S0}. The method returns a
		corresponding encryption packet that can be decrypted by the owner of the
		secret key.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_SecretKey bool verify (@code{const std::string&} data, @code{std::string} s)
		This method verifies whether the signature @var{s} on @var{data} is valid
		or not. It returns @code{true}, if everything was sound.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} TMCG_SecretKey ~TMCG_SecretKey ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_SecretKey std::ostream& << (@code{std::ostream&} out, @code{const TMCG_SecretKey&} key)
	This operator exports the given @var{key} to the output stream @var{out}.
@end deftypeop

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_SecretKey std::istream& >> (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{TMCG_SecretKey&} key)
	This operator imports the given @var{key} from the input stream @var{in}.
	The data has to be delimited by a newline character. The @code{failbit}
	is set, if any parse error occurred.
@end deftypeop

@deftp {Data type} TMCG_PublicKey
	This @code{struct} represents the public part of the TMCG key.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} name
		This string contains the name or a pseudonym of the key owner.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} email
		This string contains the email address of the key owner.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} type
		This string contains information about the key type. The common
		prefix is @code{TMCG/RABIN}. It is followed by the decimal encoded
		bit size of the modulus @math{m}. The suffix @code{NIZK} signals
		that the correctness of the key is shown by an appended non-interactive
		zero-knowledge proof. The single parts are separated by underscore
		characters @code{_}, e.g., @code{TMCG/RABIN_1024_NIZK} has the correct
		form. However, the suffix can be left empty, if the key is
		only used for encryption and signing.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} nizk
		This string contains two stages of non-interactive zero-knowledge
		proof of Gennaro, Micciancio and Rabin (ACM CCS, 1998). They show
		that the modulus @math{m} was correctly generated. Further there is another
		non-interactive zero-knowledge proof appended which shows that the condition
		@math{y\in{\bf NQR}^\circ_m} holds.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} sig
		This string contains the self signature of the public key.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_PublicKey {mpz_t} m
		This is the public modulus @math{m = p \cdot q} which is the product
		of two secret primes @math{p} and @math{q}. The size of @math{m}
		is determined by the security parameter @code{TMCG_QRA_SIZE}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_PublicKey {mpz_t} y
		This is the public quadratic non-residue @math{y\in {\bf NQR}^\circ_m}
		which is used by several zero-knowledge proofs of the toolbox.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_PublicKey TMCG_PublicKey ()
		This default constructor initializes an empty public key.
	@end defop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} TMCG_PublicKey {} TMCG_PublicKey (@code{const TMCG_SecretKey&} skey)
		This constructor initializes the key using public values
		of the secret key @var{skey}.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} TMCG_PublicKey {} TMCG_PublicKey (@code{const TMCG_PublicKey&} pkey)
		This is a simple copy-constructor and @var{pkey} is the key to be copied.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_PublicKey TMCG_PublicKey& = (@code{const TMCG_PublicKey&} that)
		This is a simple assignment-operator and @var{that} is the key to be assigned.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey bool check ()
		This method tests whether the self signature is valid and whether the
		non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs are sound. It returns @code{true},
		if all checks have been successfully passed. Due to the computational
		complexity of the verification procedure these checks are extremely
		time-consuming.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} fingerprint ()
		This method returns the fingerprint of the key. The fingerprint is the
		hexadecimal notation of the hash value (algorithm @code{TMCG_GCRY_MD_ALGO})
		on the members @code{name}, @code{email}, @code{type}, @code{m}, @code{y},
		@code{nizk}, and @code{sig}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} selfid ()
		This method returns the real value of the self signature. The string
		@code{ERROR} is returned, if any parse error occurred. The string
		@code{SELFSIG-SELFSIG-SELFSIG-SELFSIG-SELFSIG-SELFSIG} is returned,
		if the self signature @code{sig} was empty.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} keyid (@code{size_t} size @code{=TMCG_KEYID_SIZE})
		This method returns the unique key identifier of length @var{size}.
		The default value of the first argument is set to @code{TMCG_KEYID_SIZE},
		if @var{size} is omitted in the call.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey {size_t} keyid_size (@code{const std::string&} s)
		This method returns the length of the unique key identifier @var{s}.
		Zero is returned, if any parse error occurred.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} sigid (@code{std::string} s)
		This method returns the unique key identifier which is included in the
		signature @var{s}. The string @code{ERROR} is returned, if any parse
		error occurred.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey bool import (@code{std::string} s)
		This method imports the key from a correctly formatted input string
		@var{s}. It returns @code{true}, if the import was successful.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey {std::string} encrypt (@code{const char*} value)
		This method encrypts the content of @var{value} which is a pointer to a
		character array of size @code{TMCG_SAEP_S0}. The method returns a
		corresponding encryption packet that can be decrypted by the owner of the
		secret key.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod TMCG_PublicKey bool verify (@code{const std::string&} data, @code{std::string} s)
		This method verifies whether the signature @var{s} on @var{data} is valid
		or not. It returns @code{true}, if everything was sound.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} TMCG_PublicKey ~TMCG_PublicKey ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_PublicKey std::ostream& << (@code{std::ostream&} out, @code{const TMCG_PublicKey&} key)
	This operator exports the given @var{key} to the output stream @var{out}.
@end deftypeop

@deftypeop {Operator} TMCG_PublicKey std::istream& >> (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{TMCG_PublicKey&} key)
	This operator imports the given @var{key} from the input stream @var{in}.
	The data has to be delimited by a newline character. The @code{failbit}
	is set, if any parse error occurred.
@end deftypeop

@deftp {Data type} TMCG_PublicKeyRing
	This @code{struct} is just a simple container for TMCG public keys. There are
	no particular methods provided by @code{TMCG_PublicKeyRing}. You have to use
	the regular interface of the STL container @code{std::vector} to access the
	single keys of the ring.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} TMCG_PublicKeyRing {std::vector<TMCG_PublicKey>} keys
		This is the real container that is used to store the keys.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_PublicKeyRing TMCG_PublicKeyRing ()
		This default constructor initializes an empty public key ring.
	@end defop
	
	@defop {Constructor} TMCG_PublicKeyRing TMCG_PublicKeyRing (@code{size_t} n)
		This constructor initializes the container for storing exactly
		@var{n} keys.
	@end defop
	
	@defop {Destructor} TMCG_PublicKeyRing ~TMCG_PublicKeyRing ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@node Classes
@subsection Classes
@cindex Classes
LibTMCG consists of several C++ classes. Some of them are only extensions
or optimizations, but other provide necessary interfaces to perform the basic
operations in secure card games, e.g., the creation of open cards, the masking
of cards, the opening of masked cards, the verifiable secret shuffle of a stack,
and more general tasks like distributed key generation procedures. Each class
implements the main functionality of the corresponding research
paper@tie{}[Sc98,BS03,Gr05]. The author names are a prefix of the class
name and the then following part is an abbreviation of the title.

@subsubsection Verifiable @var{k}-out-of-@var{k} Threshold Masking Function
The two classes of this subsection are concrete instantiations of Barnett
and Smart's VTMF primitive@tie{}[BS03]. More formally, the authors specify
four different protocols:
@itemize @bullet
	@item Key Generation Protocol
	@item Verifiable Masking Protocol
	@item Verifiable Re-masking Protocol
	@item Verifiable Decryption Protocol
@end itemize
Each protocol uses low-level operations on an appropriately chosen algebraic
group @math{G}. The choice of this group is crucial to the security of the
card encoding scheme and thus to the high-level operations on cards resp.
stacks.

There are just a few methods and members of these classes that might be of
general interest for an application programmer, e.g. the methods of the key
generation protocol. The other stuff is only used internally by high-level
operations of @code{SchindelhauerTMCG}. Therefore this manual omits the
description of such internal functions and members.

@deftp {Class} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog
	This class implements the discrete logarithm instantiation of the VTMF
	primitive in the field @math{{\bf Z}/p{\bf Z}}, where @math{p} is a large
	prime number. The mathematical computations are performed in the finite cyclic
	subgroup @math{G} of prime order @math{q} such that @math{p = kq + 1} holds
	for some @math{k\in {\bf Z}}. The security relies on the DDH assumption in
	@math{G}, i.e., the distribution @math{\{g^a, g^b, g^{ab}\}} is computationally
	indistinguishable from @math{\{g^a, g^b, g^c\}}, where @math{g} is a
	generator of @math{G} and @math{a, b, c} are chosen at random from
	@math{{\bf Z}_q}. Currently, this well-established assumption is believed to
	hold, if @math{p} and @math{q} are chosen according to the predefined security
	parameters of LibTMCG.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog {mpz_t} p
		This is the public prime number @math{p} which defines the
		underlying field @math{{\bf Z}/p{\bf Z}}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog {mpz_t} q
		This is the public prime number @math{q} which defines the
		underlying cyclic group @math{G}. @math{G} is a subgroup of
		@math{{\bf Z}/p{\bf Z}} and is exactly of order @math{q}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog {mpz_t} g
		This is the fixed public generator @math{g} of the underlying
		group @math{G}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog {mpz_t} k
		This is a public integer @math{k} such that @math{p = kq + 1} holds.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog {mpz_t} h
		This is the common public key @math{h = \prod_{i=1}^k h_i} which contains
		the public keys @math{h_i} of each player @math{P_i}. Note that in the
		above formula @math{k} denotes the number of players.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog {} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog (@code{unsigned long int} fieldsize @code{=TMCG_DDH_SIZE}, @code{unsigned long int} subgroupsize @code{=TMCG_DLSE_SIZE})
		This constructor creates a new VTMF instance. That means, the primes
		@math{p} and @math{q} are randomly and uniformly chosen such that
		they have length @var{fieldsize} bit and @var{subgroupsize} bit, respectively.
		Further, a generator @math{g} for the unique subgroup of order @math{q} is
		chosen at random. If the arguments are omitted, then @var{fieldsize} and
		@var{subgroupsize} are set to their default values @code{TMCG_DDH_SIZE} and
		@code{TMCG_DLSE_SIZE}, respectively.
		Depending on @var{fieldsize} and @var{subgroupsize} the group generation
		is a very time-consuming task and some dots are sent to @code{std::cerr} as
		a progress indicator.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog {} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{unsigned long int} fieldsize @code{=TMCG_DDH_SIZE}, @code{unsigned long int} subgroupsize @code{=TMCG_DLSE_SIZE})
		This constructor initializes the VTMF instance from a correctly formatted
		input stream @var{in}. For example, such a stream can be generated by calling
		the method @code{PublishGroup} of an already created instance. The arguments
		@var{fieldsize} and @var{subgroupsize} are stored for later following usage,
		e.g. by the method @code{CheckGroup} as explained below.
		If these arguments are omitted, then they are set to the default values
		@code{TMCG_DDH_SIZE} and @code{TMCG_DLSE_SIZE}, respectively.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog bool CheckGroup ()
		This method checks whether @math{p} and @math{q} have appropriate sizes
		with respect to the bit lengths given during the initialization of the
		corresponding instance. Further, it checks whether @math{p} has the correct
		form (i.e. @math{p = kq +1}), whether @math{p} and @math{q} are probable
		prime, and whether @math{g} is a generator of the subgroup @math{G}. It
		returns @code{true}, if all of these checks have been passed successfully.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog void PublishGroup (@code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method exports all necessary group parameters of @math{G} to
		the given output stream @var{out}, so other VTMF instances of @math{G}
		can be initialized, e.g. with the second constructor of
		@code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog void KeyGenerationProtocol_GenerateKey ()
		This method generates a VTMF key pair and stores the pair internally for
		a later following usage. It must be called before any other part
		of the key generation protocol is executed. Otherwise, the produced results
		are wrong.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog void KeyGenerationProtocol_PublishKey (@code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method exports the public part of the generated VTMF key pair to the
		given output stream @var{out}. Further, it appends a non-interactive
		zero-knowledge proof of knowledge which shows that the instance knows the
		secret part.
		Due to the non-interactive nature of this proof the method has to be called
		only once while the computed output can be reused multiple times if necessary.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog bool KeyGenerationProtocol_UpdateKey (@code{std::istream&} in)
		This method reads the public part of a VTMF key and the proof of knowledge
		from the input stream @var{in}. It appends the key to the common public key
		and returns @code{true}, if the given proof was sound. Otherwise, @code{false}
		is returned.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog bool KeyGenerationProtocol_RemoveKey (@code{std::istream&} in)
		This method reads the public part of a VTMF key and the corresponding proof
		of knowledge from the input stream @var{in}. It removes the key from the
		common public key and returns @code{true}, if the key was previously appended
		by @code{KeyGenerationProtocol_UpdateKey} as explained above.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog void KeyGenerationProtocol_Finalize ()
		This method must be called after any update
		(@code{KeyGenerationProtocol_UpdateKey}) or removal
		(@code{KeyGenerationProtocol_RemoveKey}) has been performed
		on the common public key.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog ~BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@deftp {Subclass of @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog}} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR
	This subclass implements the discrete logarithm instantiation of the VTMF
	primitive in the field @math{{\bf Z}/p{\bf Z}}, where @math{p} is a large
	prime number. The mathematical computations are performed in the finite
	cyclic subgroup @math{G} (quadratic residues modulo @math{p}) of prime order
	@math{q}, where @math{p = 2q + 1} holds. The security relies on the DDH
	assumption in @math{G}, i.e., the distribution @math{\{g^a, g^b, g^{ab}\}}
	is computationally indistinguishable from @math{\{g^a, g^b, g^c\}}, where
	@math{g} is a generator of @math{G} and @math{a, b, c} are chosen at random
	from @math{{\bf Z}_q}. Currently, this well-established assumption is believed
	to hold, if @math{p} and @math{q} are chosen according to the predefined
	security parameters of LibTMCG.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR {mpz_t} p
		This is the public prime number @math{p} which defines the
		underlying field @math{{\bf Z}/p{\bf Z}}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR {mpz_t} q
		This is the public prime number @math{q} which defines the
		underlying cyclic group @math{G}. @math{G} denotes the unique
		subgroup of quadratic residues modulo @math{p} which is
		exactly of order @math{q}, if @math{p = 2q + 1} holds.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR {mpz_t} g
		This is the fixed public generator @math{g} of the underlying
		group @math{G}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR {mpz_t} k
		This integer is fixed here by @math{k = 2}.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR {mpz_t} h
		This is the common public key @math{h = \prod_{i=1}^k h_i} which contains
		the public keys @math{h_i} of each player @math{P_i}. Note that in the
		above formula @math{k} denotes the number of players.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypeop {} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR {} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR (@code{unsigned long int} fieldsize @code{=TMCG_DDH_SIZE}, @code{unsigned long int} exponentsize @code{=TMCG_DLSE_SIZE})
		This constructor creates a new VTMF instance. That means, the safe prime
		@math{p} is randomly and uniformly chosen such that it has a length of
		@var{fieldsize} bit.
		Further, the generator @math{g} is initially set up by @math{2} and then
		shifted by @math{@var{fieldsize} - @var{exponentsize}} bit positions,
		according to the procedure described by Koshiba and Kurosawa (see
		@emph{Short Exponent Diffie-Hellman Problems}, PKC@tie{}2004, LNCS@tie{}2947).
		If the arguments of the constructor are omitted, then @var{fieldsize} and
		@var{exponentsize} are set to their default values @code{TMCG_DDH_SIZE} and
		@code{TMCG_DLSE_SIZE}, respectively.
		Depending on @var{fieldsize} and @var{exponentsize} the group generation
		is a very time-consuming task and some dots are sent to @code{std::cerr} as
		a progress indicator.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR {} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR (@code{std::istream&} in, @code{unsigned long int} fieldsize @code{=TMCG_DDH_SIZE}, @code{unsigned long int} exponentsize @code{=TMCG_DLSE_SIZE})
		This constructor initializes the VTMF instance from a correctly formatted
		input stream @var{in}. For example, such a stream can be generated by calling
		the method @code{PublishGroup} of an already created instance. The arguments
		@var{fieldsize} and @var{exponentsize} are stored for later following usage,
		e.g. by the method @code{CheckGroup} as explained below.
		If these arguments are omitted, then they are set to the default values
		@code{TMCG_DDH_SIZE} and @code{TMCG_DLSE_SIZE}, respectively.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR bool CheckGroup ()
		This method checks whether @math{p} and @math{q} have appropriate sizes
		with respect to the bit lengths given during the initialization of the
		corresponding instance. Further, it checks whether @math{p} has the correct
		form (i.e. @math{p = 2q +1}), whether @math{p} and @math{q} are probable
		prime, and whether @math{g} is a generator of the subgroup @math{G}. It
		returns @code{true}, if all of these checks have been passed successfully.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR void PublishGroup (@code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method exports all necessary group parameters of @math{G} to
		the given output stream @var{out}, so other VTMF instances of @math{G}
		can be initialized, e.g. with the second constructor of
		@code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR void KeyGenerationProtocol_GenerateKey ()
		This method generates a VTMF key pair and stores the pair internally for
		a later following usage. It must be called before any other part
		of the key generation protocol is executed. Otherwise, the produced results
		are wrong.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR void KeyGenerationProtocol_PublishKey (@code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method exports the public part of the generated VTMF key pair to the
		given output stream @var{out}. Further, it appends a non-interactive
		zero-knowledge proof of knowledge which shows that the instance knows the
		secret part.
		Due to the non-interactive nature of this proof the method has to be called
		only once while the computed output can be reused multiple times if necessary.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR bool KeyGenerationProtocol_UpdateKey (@code{std::istream&} in)
		This method reads the public part of a VTMF key and the proof of knowledge
		from the input stream @var{in}. It appends the key to the common public key
		and returns @code{true}, if the given proof was sound. Otherwise, @code{false}
		is returned.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR bool KeyGenerationProtocol_RemoveKey (@code{std::istream&} in)
		This method reads the public part of a VTMF key and the corresponding proof
		of knowledge from the input stream @var{in}. It removes the key from the
		common public key and returns @code{true}, if the key was previously appended
		by @code{KeyGenerationProtocol_UpdateKey} as explained above.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR void KeyGenerationProtocol_Finalize ()
		This method must be called after any update
		(@code{KeyGenerationProtocol_UpdateKey}) or removal
		(@code{KeyGenerationProtocol_RemoveKey}) has been performed
		on the common public key.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {} BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR ~BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@subsubsection Verifiable Secret Shuffle of Homomorphic Encryptions
Recently, Groth@tie{}[Gr05] has proposed a very efficient solution to perform
a verifiable shuffle of homomorphically encrypted values. He describes an
honest verifier zero-knowledge argument which shows the correctness of a
shuffle. Beside other applications (e.g. verifiable mix networks, electronic
voting) his protocol can be used to show (with overwhelming probability) that
the secret shuffle of a deck of cards was performed correctly. The
computational complexity and the produced communication traffic are superior
to previously deployed techniques (e.g. Schindelhauer's cut-and-choose method).
LibTMCG provides the first known implementation of Groth's famous protocol.
However, it can only be used along with the VTMF card encoding scheme of
Barnett and Smart@tie{}[BS03].

Our implementation uses the statistically hiding and computationally binding
homomorphic commitment scheme due to Pedersen (see @emph{Non-interactive
and Information-theoretic Secure Verifiable Secret Sharing}, CRYPTO@tie{}'91,
LNCS@tie{}576). The binding property relies on the hardness of computing
discrete logarithms in @math{G}, and thus a commitment is only binding for
computationally bounded provers.@footnote{Strictly speaking, due to this reason
Groth's protocol is a zero-knowledge @emph{argument} instead of a zero-knowledge
@emph{proof}. However, for convenience we will not distinguish between these
terms here.} But this choice seems to be reasonable for the intention of LibTMCG,
because all players are supposed to be computationally bounded. The security
parameters of the commitment scheme (in particular the group @math{G}) are
determined by the corresponding VTMF instance.

Further, to the best of our knowledge it is not known, whether Groth's protocol
retains the zero-knowledge property when it is executed in a concurrent setting.
Thus the application programmer should be careful and avoid parallel invocations
of the same instance.

@deftp {Class} GrothVSSHE
	This class provides the low-level interface for Groth's protocol.
	There are just a few methods that might be of general interest.
	All other components are only used internally by high-level operations
	and thus their description is omitted here.
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} GrothVSSHE {} GrothVSSHE (@code{size_t} n, @code{mpz_srcptr} p_ENC, @code{mpz_srcptr} q_ENC, @code{mpz_srcptr} k_ENC, @code{mpz_srcptr} g_ENC, @code{mpz_srcptr} h_ENC, @code{unsigned long int} ell_e @code{=TMCG_GROTH_L_E}, @code{unsigned long int} fieldsize @code{=TMCG_DDH_SIZE}, @code{unsigned long int} subgroupsize @code{=TMCG_DLSE_SIZE})
		This constructor creates a new instance. The low-level operations
		are later used to show the correctness of a shuffle of at most
		@var{n} cards. The protocol and some parameters of the commitment
		scheme are initialized by the members of the corresponding VTMF
		instance. Consequently, @var{p_ENC} is the prime number @math{p}
		which determines the field @math{{\bf Z}/p{\bf Z}}, @var{q_ENC}
		is the order of the underlying subgroup @math{G}, i.e. the prime
		number @math{q}, and @var{k_ENC} is the integer such that
		@math{p = qk + 1} holds. Further, @var{g_ENC} is the generator
		@math{g}, and finally @var{h_ENC} is the common public key @math{h}.
		The positive integer @var{ell_e} is the security parameter which
		controls the soundness error probability (@math{2^{-\ell_e}}) of
		the protocol. The default value is defined by
		@code{TMCG_GROTH_L_E}, if this argument is omitted. The @var{fieldsize}
		and the @var{subgroupsize} are supplied to internal classes
		and are only of interest, if @var{p_ENC} or @var{q_ENC} have
		lengths different from the default. If these arguments are
		omitted, they are set to @code{TMCG_DDH_SIZE} and @code{TMCG_DLSE_SIZE},
		respectively.
		
		Note that the generators @math{g'_1, \ldots, g'_n} of the Pedersen
		commitment scheme are randomly and uniformly chosen from @math{{\bf Z}_q}.
		Therefore this constructor should be instantiated only once by the session
		leader. All other instances must be created by the second constructor.
		Further, it is very important that the VTMF key generation protocol
		has been finished before the value of @math{h} is passed to the
		constructor. Otherwise, the correctness verification will definitely fail.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} GrothVSSHE {} GrothVSSHE (@code{size_t} n, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{unsigned long int} ell_e @code{=TMCG_GROTH_L_E}, @code{unsigned long int} fieldsize @code{=TMCG_DDH_SIZE}, @code{unsigned long int} subgroupsize @code{=TMCG_DLSE_SIZE})
		This constructor initializes the instance from a correctly formatted
		input stream @var{in}. For example, such a stream can be generated by
		calling the method @code{PublishGroup} of an already created instance.
		Later the instance can be used to show the correctness of a shuffle of
		at most @var{n} cards.
		The positive integer @var{ell_e} controls the soundness error probability
		of the protocol. The default value is defined by @code{TMCG_GROTH_L_E},
		if this argument is omitted.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod GrothVSSHE bool CheckGroup ()
		This method checks whether the initialized commitment scheme is sound.
		It returns @code{true}, if all tests have been passed successfully.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod GrothVSSHE void PublishGroup (@code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method exports the instance configuration to the output stream
		@var{out} such that other instances can be initialized, e.g. with the
		second constructor.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} GrothVSSHE ~GrothVSSHE ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@subsubsection Toolbox for Mental Card Games
This section explains the main class of LibTMCG which provides all
``high-level operations'' from Schindelhauer's toolbox@tie{}[Sc98].
Even if the more efficient card encoding scheme of Barnett and
Smart@tie{}[BS03] is deployed, at least one instance of the following
class must be created to perform any card or stack operations.

@deftp {Class} SchindelhauerTMCG
	This class implements the main core of Schindelhauer's toolbox,
	i.e. important functions like masking, opening, and shuffling of
	cards and stacks, respectively. Some exotic operations are still missing,
	e.g., the possibility to insert a masked card secretly into a stack or
	the verifiable subset properties of stacks.
	All implemented operations are available for the original encoding scheme
	of Schindelhauer (see @code{TMCG_Card}) and, of course, for the more efficient
	encoding scheme of Barnett and Smart (see @code{VTMF_Card} and
	@code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog}) as well.
	
	@deftypecv {Member} SchindelhauerTMCG {unsigned long int} TMCG_SecurityLevel
		This read-only nonnegative integer represents the security parameter @math{t}
		which was given to the constructor of this class. It defines the number of
		protocol iterations and hence the soundness error probability (@math{2^{-t}})
		of the zero-knowledge proofs in the encoding scheme of Schindelhauer.
		Further it defines the soundness error probability (also @math{2^{-t}})
		of the shuffle argument in the encoding scheme of Barnett and Smart, if
		the efficient protocol of Groth@tie{}[Gr05] is not used.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} SchindelhauerTMCG {size_t} TMCG_Players
		This read-only nonnegative integer represents the number of players as
		given to the constructor of this class.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypecv {Member} SchindelhauerTMCG {size_t} TMCG_TypeBits
		This read-only nonnegative integer contains the number of bits that are
		necessary to encode the card types in the binary representation. It was
		given as an argument to the constructor of this class.
	@end deftypecv
	
	@deftypeop {Constructor} SchindelhauerTMCG {} SchindelhauerTMCG (@code{unsigned long int} security, @code{size_t} k, @code{size_t} w)
		This constructor creates an instance, where @var{security} is a nonnegative
		integer that represents the security parameter @math{t}. The parameter @var{k}
		is the number of players and @var{w} is the number of bits which are necessary
		to represent all possible card types in a binary representation.
		
		The integer @math{t} controls the maximum soundness error probability (@math{2^{-t}})
		of the zero-knowledge proofs in the encoding scheme of Schindelhauer.
		Specifically, @var{security} defines the number of sequential iterations of
		the involved protocols and thus has a major impact on the computational
		and communication complexity. If the encoding scheme of Barnett and
		Smart@tie{}[BS03] is used, then it only defines the soundness error
		probability (also @math{2^{-t}}) of the shuffle proof. However, if only
		the efficient shuffle verification protocol of Groth@tie{}[Gr05] is used,
		then the parameter @var{security} is dispensable, because the parameter @var{ell_e}
		given during instantiation of @code{GrothVSSHE} (e.g. the LibTMCG default security
		parameter @code{TMCG_GROTH_L_E}) determines this soundness error probability
		(@math{2^{-\ell_e}}).
		
		Unfortunately, the parameters @var{k} and @var{w} have a major impact on the
		complexity in the encoding scheme of Schindelhauer, too. Therefore you should always use
		reasonable values. For example, to create a deck with @math{M} different card types
		simply set @var{w} to @math{\lceil\log_2 M\rceil} which is an tight upper-bound for
		the binary representation. Furthermore, set @var{k} to the
		number of players which are really involved and not to a possible maximum value.
		Note that @var{k} and @var{w} are limited by the global constants
		@code{TMCG_MAX_PLAYERS} and @code{TMCG_MAX_TYPEBITS}, respectively.
	@end deftypeop
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_CreateOpenCard (@code{TMCG_Card&} c, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{size_t} type)
		This method initializes the open card @var{c} with the given @var{type}
		using the encoding scheme of Schindelhauer. The @var{type} MUST be an
		integer from the interval @math{[0, 2^{w} - 1]}, where @math{w} is the
		number given to the constructor of this class. The @math{w} MUST be the
		same number as used at creation of @var{c} (see @code{TMCG_Card}). The
		parameter @var{ring} is a container with exactly @math{k} public keys,
		where @math{k} is the number given to the constructor of this class.
		The @math{k} MUST be the same number as used at the creation of @var{c}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_CreateOpenCard (@code{VTMF_Card&} c, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{size_t} type)
		This method initializes the open card @var{c} with the given @var{type}
		using the encoding scheme of Barnett and Smart. The @var{type} MUST be an
		integer from the interval @math{[0, 2^{w} - 1]}, where @math{w} is the
		number given to the constructor of this class. The parameter @var{vtmf}
		is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance, i.e. the key
		generation protocol was successfully finished (see @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog}
		and @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR}, respectively).
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_CreateCardSecret (@code{TMCG_CardSecret&} cs, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{size_t} index)
		This method initializes the card secret @var{cs} with random values
		which is necessary to perform later a masking operation on a card.
		The parameter @var{ring} is a container with exactly @math{k} public
		keys, where @math{k} is the number given to the constructor of this
		class. It MUST be the same number as used at the creation of @var{cs}
		(see @code{TMCG_CardSecret}). The parameter @var{index} is from the
		interval @math{[0, k - 1]} and determines the position of the players
		public key in the container @var{ring}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_CreateCardSecret (@code{VTMF_CardSecret&} cs, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf)
		This method initializes the card secret @var{cs} with a random value
		which is necessary to perform later a masking operation on a card.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF
		instance, i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished
		(see @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog} and @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR},
		respectively).
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_CreatePrivateCard (@code{TMCG_Card&} c, @code{TMCG_CardSecret&} cs, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{size_t} index, @code{size_t} type)
		This method initializes a masked card @var{c} with the given @var{type} and
		a corresponding card secret @var{cs} using the encoding scheme of
		Schindelhauer.
		The @var{type} MUST be an integer from the interval @math{[0, 2^{w} - 1]},
		where @math{w} is the number given to the constructor of this class. The
		@math{w} MUST be the same number as used at creation of @var{c} (see
		@code{TMCG_Card}) and @var{cs} (see @code{TMCG_CardSecret}). The parameter
		@var{ring} is a container with exactly @math{k} public keys, where @math{k}
		is the number given to the constructor of this class. The @math{k} MUST be
		the same number as used at the creation of @var{c} and @var{cs}. The parameter
		@var{index} is from the interval @math{[0, k - 1]} and determines the
		position of the players public key in the container @var{ring}.
		Internally, @code{TMCG_CreatePrivateCard} calls
		@enumerate
			@item @code{TMCG_CreateOpenCard} to initialize @var{c} with @var{type},
			@item @code{TMCG_CreateCardSecret} to initialize @var{cs} with random
				values, and
			@item @code{TMCG_MaskCard} to mask @var{c} with the secret @var{cs}.
		@end enumerate
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_CreatePrivateCard (@code{VTMF_Card&} c, @code{VTMF_CardSecret&} cs, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{size_t} type)
		This method initializes a masked card @var{c} with the given @var{type} and
		a corresponding card secret @var{cs} using the encoding scheme of Barnett and
		Smart. The @var{type} MUST be an integer from the interval
		@math{[0, 2^{w} - 1]}, where @math{w} is the number given to the constructor
		of this class. The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized
		VTMF instance, i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished
		(see @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog} and @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR},
		respectively). Specifically, @code{TMCG_CreatePrivateCard} directly executes
		the masking operation of the verifiable masking protocol.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_MaskCard (@code{const TMCG_Card&} c, @code{TMCG_Card&} cc, @code{const TMCG_CardSecret&} cs, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{bool} TimingAttackProtection @code{=true})
		This method performs a masking operation on the open or already masked card
		@var{c} using the encoding scheme of Schindelhauer. Finally it returns the
		result in @var{cc}.
		The parameter @var{cs} MUST be an initialized fresh card secret which has NEVER
		been involved in a masking operation before. The parameters @var{c}, @var{cc},
		and @var{cs} MUST be created such that their @math{k} and @math{w}
		corresponds to the numbers given to the constructor of this class,
		respectively. The parameter @var{ring} is a container with exactly
		@math{k} public keys.
		The protection against timing attacks is turned on, if
		@var{TimingAttackProtection} is set to @code{true}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_MaskCard (@code{const VTMF_Card&} c, @code{VTMF_Card&} cc, @code{const VTMF_CardSecret&} cs, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{bool} TimingAttackProtection @code{=true})
		This method performs a masking operation on the open or already masked card
		@var{c} using the encoding scheme of Barnett and Smart. Finally it returns the
		result in @var{cc}. Specifically, @code{TMCG_MaskCard} directly executes
		the masking operation of the verifiable re-masking protocol.
		The parameter @var{cs} MUST be an initialized fresh card secret which has
		NEVER been involved in a masking operation before.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized
		VTMF instance, i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished
		(see @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog} and @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog_GroupQR},
		respectively). The protection against timing attacks is turned on, if
		@var{TimingAttackProtection} is set to @code{true}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_ProveMaskCard (@code{const TMCG_Card&} c, @code{const TMCG_Card&} cc, @code{const TMCG_CardSecret&} cs, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method should be called by the prover after @code{TMCG_MaskCard} to show
		that he performed the masking operation correctly. The parameters @var{c},
		@var{cc}, and @var{cs} are the input, the result, and the used card secret
		of @code{TMCG_MaskCard}, respectively.
		They MUST be created such that their @math{k} resp. @math{w}
		corresponds to the numbers given to the constructor of this class. The
		parameter @var{ring} is a container with exactly @math{k} public keys.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the verifier are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_ProveMaskCard (@code{const VTMF_Card&} c, @code{const VTMF_Card&} cc, @code{const VTMF_CardSecret&} cs, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method should be executed by the prover after calling @code{TMCG_MaskCard}
		to show that he performed the masking operation correctly. Specifically,
		@code{TMCG_ProveMaskCard} directly calls the prove operation of the
		verifiable re-masking protocol.
		The parameters @var{c}, @var{cc}, and @var{cs} are the input, the result, and
		the used card secret of @code{TMCG_MaskCard}, respectively.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the verifier are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG bool TMCG_VerifyMaskCard (@code{const TMCG_Card&} c, @code{const TMCG_Card&} cc, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method should be executed by the verifier to check whether or not a
		masking operation was performed correctly. The parameters @var{c} and
		@var{cc} are the input and the result of @code{TMCG_MaskCard}, respectively.
		They MUST be created such that their @math{k} resp. @math{w} corresponds to
		the numbers given to the constructor of this class.
		The parameter @var{ring} is a container with exactly @math{k} public keys.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the prover are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
		The method returns @code{true}, if everything was sound.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG bool TMCG_VerifyMaskCard (@code{const VTMF_Card&} c, @code{const VTMF_Card&} cc, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method should be executed by the verifier to check whether or not a
		masking operation was performed correctly. Specifically,
		@code{TMCG_VerifyMaskCard} directly calls the verify operation of the
		verifiable re-masking protocol. The parameters @var{c} and
		@var{cc} are the input and the result of @code{TMCG_MaskCard}, respectively.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the prover are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
		The method returns @code{true}, if everything was sound.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_ProveCardSecret (@code{const TMCG_Card&} c, @code{const TMCG_SecretKey&} key, @code{size_t} index, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method is used to reveal the card type of @var{c} to a verifier.
		Every player must execute this method as prover.
		The card @var{c} MUST be created such that its @math{k} resp. @math{w}
		corresponds to the numbers given to the constructor of this class.
		The parameter @var{key} is the corresponding secret key (see
		@code{TMCG_SecretKey}) of the prover. The parameter @var{index} is from the
		interval @math{[0, k - 1]} and contains the position of the provers
		public key in the container @var{ring} (same as in @code{TMCG_CreateCardSecret}).
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the verifier are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_ProveCardSecret (@code{const VTMF_Card&} c, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method is used to reveal the card type of @var{c} to a verifier.
		Every player must execute this method as prover.
		Specifically, @code{TMCG_ProveCardSecret} directly calls the prove operation of the
		verifiable decryption protocol.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the verifier are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG bool TMCG_VerifyCardSecret (@code{const TMCG_Card&} c, @code{TMCG_CardSecret&} cs, @code{const TMCG_PublicKey&} key, @code{size_t} index, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method is used to verify and accumulate card type information regarding
		@var{c} that are supplied by a prover. It is the opposite method of 
		@code{TMCG_ProveCardSecret} and must be executed by the player who wants to
		know the type. The secrets provided by the single provers are accumulated in
		the parameter @var{cs}.
		Thus @var{c} and @var{cs} MUST be created such that their @math{k} resp. @math{w}
		corresponds to the numbers given to the constructor of this class.
		The parameter @var{key} is the corresponding public key (see @code{TMCG_PublicKey})
		of the prover. The parameter @var{index} is from the interval @math{[0, k - 1]}
		and contains the position of the provers public key in the container @var{ring}
		(same as in @code{TMCG_CreateCardSecret}).
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the prover are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG bool TMCG_VerifyCardSecret (@code{const VTMF_Card&} c, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method is used to verify and accumulate card type information regarding
		@var{c} that are supplied by a prover. It is the opposite method of
		@code{TMCG_ProveCardSecret} and must be executed by the player who wants
		to know the type. The secrets provided by the single provers are accumulated
		internally, thus this method cannot be interleaved with the opening of other
		cards.
		Specifically, @code{TMCG_VerifyCardSecret} directly calls the verify
		and update operation of the verifiable decryption protocol.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the verifier are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_SelfCardSecret (@code{const TMCG_Card&} c, @code{TMCG_CardSecret&} cs, @code{const TMCG_SecretKey&} key, @code{size_t} index)
		This method is used to compute and accumulate card type information regarding
		@var{c}. Analogously to @code{TMCG_VerifyCardSecret} it must be executed by the
		player who wants to know the type of @var{c}. The information is accumulated in
		the parameter @var{cs}.
		Thus @var{c} and @var{cs} MUST be created such that their @math{k} resp. @math{w}
		corresponds to the numbers given to the constructor of this class.
		The parameter @var{key} is the corresponding secret key (see @code{TMCG_SecretKey})
		of the player. The parameter @var{index} is from the interval @math{[0, k - 1]}
		and contains the position of the players public key in the container @var{ring}
		(same as in @code{TMCG_CreateCardSecret}).
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_SelfCardSecret (@code{const VTMF_Card&} c, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf)
		This method is used to compute and accumulate card type information regarding
		@var{c}. It MUST be called by the player who wants to know the type of @var{c}
		BEFORE @code{TMCG_VerifyCardSecret} and @code{TMCG_TypeOfCard} are executed.
		The secrets provided by the player are accumulated internally, thus this method
		cannot be interleaved with the opening of other cards.
		Specifically, @code{TMCG_SelfCardSecret} directly calls the initialize operation
		of the verifiable decryption protocol.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG size_t TMCG_TypeOfCard (@code{const TMCG_CardSecret&} cs)
		This method returns the type of a masked card provided that the type
		information were properly accumulated in @var{cs} before (by calling
		@code{TMCG_SelfCardSecret} and @code{TMCG_VerifyCardSecret}, respectively).
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG size_t TMCG_TypeOfCard (@code{const VTMF_Card&} c, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf)
		This method returns the type of a masked card @var{c} provided that the type
		information regarding @var{c} were properly accumulated internally before (by calling
		@code{TMCG_SelfCardSecret} and @code{TMCG_VerifyCardSecret}, respectively).
		It returns the value @code{TMCG_MaxCardType}, if the opening operation
		failed or if the card type was not among the set of valid types.
		This method MUST be performed by the player who wants to know the type AFTER
		@code{TMCG_SelfCardSecret} and @code{TMCG_VerifyCardSecret} are executed.
		Specifically, @code{TMCG_TypeOfCard} directly calls the finalize operation
		of the verifiable decryption protocol.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG size_t TMCG_CreateStackSecret (@code{TMCG_StackSecret<TMCG_CardSecret>&} ss, @code{bool} cyclic, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{size_t} index, @code{size_t} size)
		This method initializes the stack secret @var{ss} with a randomly and
		uniformly chosen permutation (using the algorithm of Knuth) and fresh card secrets. Later this stack
		secret can be used to perform a secret shuffle operation on a stack.
		If the parameter @var{cyclic} is set to @code{true}, then the permutation
		is only a cyclic shift which might be of interest for particular
		operations, e.g. cutting the deck.
		The parameter @var{ring} is a container with exactly @math{k} public
		keys, where @math{k} is the number given to the constructor of this
		class. The parameter @var{index} is from the interval @math{[0, k - 1]}
		and contains the position of the players public key in the container
		@var{ring}. The parameter @var{size} determines the size of the created
		stack secret, i.e. the number of cards in the corresponding stack. The
		@var{size} is upper-bounded by @code{TMCG_MAX_CARDS}.
		The method returns the offset of the cyclic shift, if @var{cyclic} was set
		to @code{true}. Otherwise, the value @code{0} is returned.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG size_t TMCG_CreateStackSecret (@code{TMCG_StackSecret<VTMF_CardSecret>&} ss, @code{bool} cyclic, @code{size_t} size, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf)
		This method initializes the stack secret @var{ss} with a randomly and
		uniformly chosen permutation (using the algorithm of Knuth) and fresh card secrets. Later this stack
		secret can be used to perform a secret shuffle operation on a stack.
		If the parameter @var{cyclic} is set to @code{true}, then the permutation
		is only a cyclic shift which might be of interest for particular
		operations, e.g. cutting the deck.
		The parameter @var{size} determines the size of the created
		stack secret, i.e. the number of cards in the corresponding stack. The
		@var{size} is upper-bounded by @code{TMCG_MAX_CARDS}.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
		The method returns the offset of the cyclic shift, if @var{cyclic} was set
		to @code{true}. Otherwise, the value @code{0} is returned.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_MixStack (@code{const TMCG_Stack<TMCG_Card>&} s, @code{TMCG_Stack<TMCG_Card>&} s2, @code{const TMCG_StackSecret<TMCG_CardSecret>&} ss, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{bool} TimingAttackProtection @code{=true})
		This method shuffles a given stack @var{s} according to the previously
		created stack secret @var{ss} (see @code{TMCG_CreateStackSecret}). The
		result of the shuffle is returned in @var{s2}.
		The parameter @var{ss} MUST be a fresh stack secret which has NEVER
		been involved in a shuffle operation before. The parameters @var{s}
		and @var{ss} MUST be of the same size. The parameter @var{ring} is a
		container with exactly @math{k} public keys, where @math{k} is the
		number given to the constructor of this class.
		The protection against timing attacks is turned on, if
		@var{TimingAttackProtection} is set to @code{true}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_MixStack (@code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s, @code{TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s2, @code{const TMCG_StackSecret<VTMF_CardSecret>&} ss, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{bool} TimingAttackProtection @code{=true})
		This method shuffles a given stack @var{s} according to the previously
		created stack secret @var{ss} (see @code{TMCG_CreateStackSecret}). The
		result of the shuffle is returned in @var{s2}.
		The parameter @var{ss} MUST be a fresh stack secret which has NEVER
		been involved in a shuffle operation before. The parameters @var{s}
		and @var{ss} MUST be of the same size.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
		The protection against timing attacks is turned on, if
		@var{TimingAttackProtection} is set to @code{true}.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_ProveStackEquality (@code{const TMCG_Stack<TMCG_Card>&} s, @code{const TMCG_Stack<TMCG_Card>&} s2, @code{const TMCG_StackSecret<TMCG_CardSecret>&} ss, @code{bool} cyclic, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{size_t} index, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method should be called by the prover after @code{TMCG_MixStack} to show
		that he performed the shuffle operation correctly. The parameters @var{s},
		@var{s2}, and @var{ss} are the input, the result, and the used stack secret
		of @code{TMCG_MixStack}, respectively.
		Of course, the parameters @var{s}, @var{s2}, and @var{ss} MUST be of the same size.
		The parameter @var{cyclic} determines whether a cyclic shift or a full permutation
		was used to shuffle the stack.
		The parameter @var{ring} is a container with exactly @math{k} public keys, where
		@math{k} is the number given to the constructor of this class.
		The parameter @var{index} is from the interval @math{[0, k - 1]} and contains the
		position of the provers public key in the container @var{ring}.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the verifier are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_ProveStackEquality (@code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s, @code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s2, @code{const TMCG_StackSecret<VTMF_CardSecret>&} ss, @code{bool} cyclic, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method should be called by the prover after @code{TMCG_MixStack} to show
		that he performed the shuffle operation correctly. The parameters @var{s},
		@var{s2}, and @var{ss} are the input, the result, and the used stack secret
		of @code{TMCG_MixStack}, respectively.
		Of course, the parameters @var{s}, @var{s2}, and @var{ss} MUST be of the same size.
		The parameter @var{cyclic} determines whether a cyclic shift or a full permutation
		was used to shuffle the stack.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the verifier are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG void TMCG_ProveStackEquality_Groth (@code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s, @code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s2, @code{const TMCG_StackSecret<VTMF_CardSecret>&} ss, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{GrothVSSHE*} vsshe, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This is a method like above. The only difference is that the more
		efficient shuffle verification protocol of Groth is used. Thus @var{vsshe}
		is a pointer to an initialized instance of @code{GrothVSSHE}.
		The rest of the arguments are the same.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG bool TMCG_VerifyStackEquality (@code{const TMCG_Stack<TMCG_Card>&} s, @code{const TMCG_Stack<TMCG_Card>&} s2, @code{bool} cyclic, @code{const TMCG_PublicKeyRing&} ring, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method should be executed by the verifier to check whether or not a
		shuffle operation was performed correctly. The parameters @var{s} and
		@var{s2} are the input and the result of @code{TMCG_MixStack}, respectively.
		Of course, the parameters @var{s} and @var{s2} should be of the same size.
		The parameter @var{cyclic} determines whether a cyclic shift or a full permutation
		was used to shuffle the stack.
		The parameter @var{ring} is a container with exactly @math{k} public keys, where
		@math{k} is the number given to the constructor of this class.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the prover are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
		This method returns @code{true}, if the shuffle operation was successfully verified.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG bool TMCG_VerifyStackEquality (@code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s, @code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s2, @code{bool} cyclic, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This method should be executed by the verifier to check whether or not a
		shuffle operation was performed correctly. The parameters @var{s} and
		@var{s2} are the input and the result of @code{TMCG_MixStack}, respectively.
		Of course, the parameters @var{s} and @var{s2} should be of the same size.
		The parameter @var{cyclic} determines whether a cyclic shift or a full permutation
		was used to shuffle the stack.
		The parameter @var{vtmf} is a pointer to an already initialized VTMF instance,
		i.e. the key generation protocol MUST be successfully finished.
		The input/output protocol messages from and to the verifier are
		transmitted on the streams @var{in} and @var{out}, respectively.
		This method returns @code{true}, if the shuffle operation was successfully verified.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@deftypemethod SchindelhauerTMCG bool TMCG_VerifyStackEquality_Groth (@code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s, @code{const TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card>&} s2, @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog*} vtmf, @code{GrothVSSHE*} vsshe, @code{std::istream&} in, @code{std::ostream&} out)
		This is a method like above. The only difference is that the more
		efficient shuffle verification protocol of Groth is used. Thus @var{vsshe}
		is a pointer to an initialized instance of @code{GrothVSSHE}.
		The rest of the arguments and the returned values are the same.
	@end deftypemethod
	
	@defop {Destructor} SchindelhauerTMCG ~SchindelhauerTMCG ()
		This destructor releases all occupied resources.
	@end defop
@end deftp

@node Examples
@c **********************************************************
@c **********************  Examples  ************************
@c **********************************************************
@chapter Examples
@cindex Examples
The following examples explain most of the steps that are necessary to create
a secure and fair card game with LibTMCG. We consider an application with five
permanent players (denoted by @math{P_0}, @math{P_1}, @math{P_2}, @math{P_3},
and @math{P_4}) and a regular deck of
52@tie{}different cards. For convenience only the more efficient card
encoding scheme of Barnett and Smart@tie{}[BS03] is described. Additionally,
we complete our exposition with code fragments which show the usage of the
fast shuffle verification protocol due to Groth@tie{}[Gr05].

Throughout the remaining pages we suppose that all players are pairwise connected by
authenticated communication channels. These channels are organized in input resp.
output streams, where @code{input_stream[i]} resp. @code{output_stream[i]} denote
the corresponding @code{std::istream} resp. @code{std::ostream} instance for the
communication with player @math{P_i}.@footnote{We assume that the players
are ordered in a natural way such that we can use the same nomenclature.}

@menu
* Library Initialization::
* Session Initialization and Key Generation::
* Operations on Cards::
* Operations on Stacks::
* Quit a Session::
@end menu

@node Library Initialization
@section Library Initialization
@cindex Initialization
The very first step that should be performed is the initialization of LibTMCG.
That can simply be done by calling the function @code{init_libTMCG} and
evaluating the return code.
@cartouche
@example
if (!init_libTMCG())
  std::cerr << "Initialization of LibTMCG failed!" << std::endl;
@end example
@end cartouche
Additionally, in the most cases it is useful to check the installed
library version by using the function @code{version_libTMCG}.

@node Session Initialization and Key Generation
@section Session Initialization and Key Generation
@cindex Initialization
@cindex Key Generation
In the next step we create an instance of the class @code{SchindelhauerTMCG}.
The first parameter determines the number of protocol iterations @math{t}
which upper-bounds the cheating probability by @math{2^{-t}}. In our example
the used value @code{64} defines a maximum cheating probability of
@math{5.421010862\cdot 10^{-20}} which is reasonable small
for our purposes. The second parameter passes the number of players
to the instance which is simply @code{5} in our case. The last argument
defines the number of bits that are necessary to encode all card types in
a binary representation. The given value @code{6} allows the encoding of
@math{2^6 = 64} different card types at maximum. This is enough to form
our deck of 52@tie{}cards.
@cartouche
@example
SchindelhauerTMCG *tmcg = new SchindelhauerTMCG(64, 5, 6);
@end example
@end cartouche
We would like to use the more efficient encoding scheme of Barnett and
Smart, thus we create an instance of @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog}. However,
a particular player has to act as a @emph{leader} who performs the
generation of the group @math{G}. In our case @math{P_0} will be the
session leader. First, he executes the constructor of @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog}.
@cartouche
@example
BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog *vtmf = new BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog();
@end example
@end cartouche
Afterwards he checks the generated group @math{G} and sends the public
parameters to all other players (corresponding stream indices are @code{1}, @code{2},
@code{3}, and @code{4}, respectively).
@cartouche
@example
if (!vtmf->CheckGroup())
  std::cerr << "Group G was not correctly generated!" << std::endl;
for (size_t i = 1; i < 5; i++)
  vtmf->PublishGroup(output_stream[i]);
@end example
@end cartouche
The other players receive the group parameters from @math{P_0} and use them
to initialize their corresponding instances of @code{BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog}.
It is very important that they also check, whether the group @math{G} was
correctly generated by the leader.
@cartouche
@example
BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog *vtmf = 
  new BarnettSmartVTMF_dlog(input_stream[0]);
if (!vtmf->CheckGroup())
  std::cerr << "Group G was not correctly generated!" << std::endl;
@end example
@end cartouche
Afterwards the key generation protocol is carried out. First, every player
generates his own VTMF key. The secret key material is stored internally
and will never be exposed.
@cartouche
@example
vtmf->KeyGenerationProtocol_GenerateKey();
@end example
@end cartouche
Then every player @math{P_j} sends the public part of his VTMF key along with a
non-interactive zero-knowledge proof of knowledge to each other player.
The appended proof shows that he indeed knows the corresponding secret key.
However, due to the non-interactive nature of this proof we have to be
careful, if same group @math{G} is used again.
@cartouche
@example
for (size_t i = 0; i < 5; i++)
@{
  if (i != j)
    vtmf->KeyGenerationProtocol_PublishKey(output_stream[i]);
@}
@end example
@end cartouche
After sending @math{P_j} receives the public keys. Simultaneously he checks, whether
the keys are correctly generated, and updates the common public key @math{h}.
@cartouche
@example
for (size_t i = 0; i < 5; i++)
@{
  if (i != j)
  @{
    if (!vtmf->KeyGenerationProtocol_UpdateKey(input_stream[i]))
      std::cerr << "Public key was not correctly generated!" << std::endl;
  @}
@}
@end example
@end cartouche
Finally, every player must finalize the key generation protocol.
@cartouche
@example
vtmf->KeyGenerationProtocol_Finalize();
@end example
@end cartouche
If we want to use the more efficient shuffle verification protocol of Groth,
then @math{P_0} must also create an instance of @code{GrothVSSHE}.
The first argument determines the maximum stack size of which the correctness
of a shuffle will be proven. The other parameters are obtained from the former
created VTMF instance @code{vtmf}. It is important that the key generation
protocol has been finalized before the common public key @math{h}
(i.e. @code{vtmf->h}) is passed.
@cartouche
@example
GrothVSSHE *vsshe = new GrothVSSHE(52, vtmf->p, vtmf->q, vtmf->k, 
  vtmf->g, vtmf->h);
@end example
@end cartouche
Again, @math{P_0} will send the public parameters of the VSSHE instance to
all other players.
@cartouche
@example
for (size_t i = 1; i < 5; i++)
  vsshe->PublishGroup(output_stream[i]);
@end example
@end cartouche
The other players receive these parameters from the leader and use them
to initialize their corresponding instances of @code{GrothVSSHE}.
Again, it is important to check, whether the parameters were correctly
chosen by the leader.
@cartouche
@example
GrothVSSHE *vsshe = new GrothVSSHE(52, input_stream[0]);
if (!vsshe->CheckGroup())
  std::cerr << "VSSHE was not correctly generated!" << std::endl;
if (mpz_cmp(vtmf->h, vsshe->com->h))
  std::cerr << "VSSHE: Common public key does not match!" << std::endl;
if (mpz_cmp(vtmf->q, vsshe->com->q))
  std::cerr << "VSSHE: Subgroup order does not match!" << std::endl;
if (mpz_cmp(vtmf->p, vsshe->p) || mpz_cmp(vtmf->q, vsshe->q) || 
  mpz_cmp(vtmf->g, vsshe->g) || mpz_cmp(vtmf->h, vsshe->h))
    std::cerr << "VSSHE: Encryption scheme does not match!" << std::endl;
@end example
@end cartouche

@node Operations on Cards
@section Operations on Cards
Now we are ready to perform several operations on cards.
We start with some basic stuff which might be of interest in
particular situations. However, it is often more convenient to work
directly with stacks, as explained later.

@menu
* Creating an Open Card::
* Masking and Re-masking of a Card::
* Opening a Masked Card::
@end menu

@node Creating an Open Card
@subsection Creating an Open Card
The creation of an open card is very simple. The following code
creates a card of type @code{7}.
@cartouche
@example
VTMF_Card c;
tmcg->TMCG_CreateOpenCard(c, vtmf, 7);
@end example
@end cartouche

@node Masking and Re-masking of a Card
@subsection Masking and Re-masking of a Card
Now the previously created card @code{c} will be masked to hide its type.
Then @code{cc} is sent to @math{P_1}.
@cartouche
@example
VTMF_Card cc;
VTMF_CardSecret cs;
tmcg->TMCG_CreateCardSecret(cs, vtmf);
tmcg->TMCG_MaskCard(c, cc, cs, vtmf);
out_stream[1] << cc << std::endl;
@end example
@end cartouche
@math{P_1} receives the card @code{cc}, re-masks them, and sends the result @code{ccc}
back to the player @math{P_0}. Further he proves that the masking operation
was performed correctly.
@cartouche
@example
VTMF_Card cc, ccc;
VTMF_CardSecret ccs;
in_stream[0] >> cc;
if (!in_stream[0].good())
  std::cerr << "Read or parse error!" << std::endl;
tmcg->TMCG_CreateCardSecret(ccs, vtmf);
tmcg->TMCG_MaskCard(cc, ccc, ccs, vtmf);
out_stream[0] << ccc << std::endl;
tmcg->TMCG_ProveMaskCard(cc, ccc, ccs, vtmf, in_stream[0], out_stream[0]);
@end example
@end cartouche
@math{P_0} receives the card, verifies the proof, and sends the card to all other
players.
@cartouche
@example
VTMF_Card ccc;
in_stream[1] >> ccc;
if (!tmcg->TMCG_VerifyMaskCard(cc, ccc, vtmf, in_stream[1], out_stream[1]))
  std::cerr << "Verification failed!" << std::endl;
for (size_t i = 1; i < 5; i++)
  out_stream[i] << ccc << std::endl;
@end example
@end cartouche
Finally, all other players receive and store the masked card @code{ccc}.

@node Opening a Masked Card
@subsection Opening a Masked Card
Suppose that @math{P_1} would like to know the type of the masked card @code{ccc}.
Of course, @math{P_0} could simply reveal it, but that isn't verifiable. Anyway,
if all players cooperate, then @math{P_1} can compute the type in a verifiable
way. First, every player (except @math{P_1}) will execute the following code.
@cartouche
@example
tmcg->TMCG_ProveCardSecret(ccc, vtmf, in_stream[1], out_stream[1]);
@end example
@end cartouche
On the other hand, @math{P_1} will execute the following commands exactly
in the given order. Finally, he obtain the card type in the variable @code{type}.
@cartouche
@example
tmcg->TMCG_SelfCardSecret(ccc, vtmf);
for (size_t i = 0; i < 5; i++)
@{
  if (i == 1)
    continue;
  if (!tmcg->TMCG_VerifyCardSecret(ccc, vtmf, in_stream[i], out_stream[i]))
    std::cerr << "Verification failed!" << std::endl;
@}
type = tmcg->TMCG_TypeOfCard(ccc, vtmf);
@end example
@end cartouche

@node Operations on Stacks
@section Operations on Stacks
There exist a lot of basic operations on stacks, e.g. pushing a card to a stack
or importing a stack. These functions are to simple for explaining them here, but
they are used implicitly. However, a short description can be found in the
API part of the manual (see @code{TMCG_Stack} and @code{TMCG_OpenStack}).

@menu
* Creating the Deck::
* Shuffling the Deck::
* Drawing a Card from the Deck::
@end menu

@node Creating the Deck
@subsection Creating the Deck
A quite common operation is the creation of a card deck. The deck will
initially be represented by an open stack (see @code{TMCG_OpenStack}) called
@code{deck}. Every player creates his own deck which consists of 52@tie{}different
open cards in our example.
@cartouche
@example
TMCG_OpenStack<VTMF_Card> deck;
for (size_t type = 0; type < 52; type++)
@{
  VTMF_Card c;
  tmcg->TMCG_CreateOpenCard(c, vtmf, type);
  deck.push(type, c);
@}
@end example
@end cartouche
Note that this card deck must be consistent for all players, that means,
the order of the open cards must be exactly the same for all players.

@node Shuffling the Deck
@subsection Shuffling the Deck
Each player must perform a shuffle of the deck, because only such a procedure
guarantees that no coalition has influence on the outcome. Thus we build a
shuffle chain such that every player shuffles the deck.
Consider the following code fragment for the player @math{P_j}.

The regular stack @code{s} is initialized with open cards from @code{deck}.
Then each player shuffles the stack (see @code{TMCG_MixStack}) and proves the
correctness of this operation (see @code{TMCG_ProveStackEquality}). Consequently,
every player should verify these proofs (see @code{TMCG_VerifyStackEquality}).
Finally, the stack @code{s} contains the shuffled result.
@cartouche
@example
TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card> s;
s.push(deck);

for (size_t i = 0; i < 5; i++)
@{
  TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card> s2;
  if (i == j)
  @{
    TMCG_StackSecret<VTMF_CardSecret> ss;
    tmcg->TMCG_CreateStackSecret(ss, false, s.size(), vtmf);
    tmcg->TMCG_MixStack(s, s2, ss, vtmf);
    for (size_t i2 = 0; i2 < 5; i2++)
    @{
      if (i2 == j)
        continue;
      out_stream[i2] << s2 << std::endl;
      tmcg->TMCG_ProveStackEquality(s, s2, ss, false, vtmf,
        in_stream[i2], out_stream[i2]);
    @}
  @}
  else
  @{
    in_stream[i] >> s2;
    if (!in_stream[i].good())
      std::cerr << "Read or parse error!" << std::endl;
    if (!tmcg->TMCG_VerifyStackEquality(s, s2, false, vtmf,
      in_stream[i], out_stream[i]))
        std::cerr << "Verification failed!" << std::endl;
  @}
  s = s2;
@}
@end example
@end cartouche

If you want to use the more efficient shuffle verification protocol of Groth,
then you must simply replace @code{TMCG_ProveStackEquality} and
@code{TMCG_VerifyStackEquality} by @code{TMCG_ProveStackEquality_Groth} and
@code{TMCG_VerifyStackEquality_Groth}, respectively.

@node Drawing a Card from the Deck
@subsection Drawing a Card from the Deck
Now every player has the same shuffled deck @code{s} and nobody knows in which
order the 52@tie{}cards are stacked. Therefore you can simply use any drawing
strategy to obtain a players hand. For example, look at the following code that
draws two cards from @code{s} for each player.
@cartouche
@example
TMCG_Stack<VTMF_Card> hand[5];
for (size_t i = 0; i < 5; i++)
@{
  VTMF_Card c1, c2;
  s.pop(c1), s.pop(c2);
  hand[i].push(c1), hand[i].push(c2);
@}
@end example
@end cartouche
Further, probably you want disclose the card types to the corresponding
player. Consider the code fragment for the player @math{P_j}: Every player
receives the necessary information from the other players and computes the
card types of his hand @code{hand[j]}. Finally, these types are stored
together with the masked cards in the open stack @code{private_hand}. The
example can be modified in a straightforward way to publicly disclose a
card from a players hand or from the remaining stack @code{s}.
@cartouche
@example
TMCG_OpenStack<VTMF_Card> private_hand;
for (size_t i = 0; i < 5; i++)
@{
  if (i == j)
  @{
    for (size_t k = 0; k < hand[j].size(); k++)
    @{
      tmcg->TMCG_SelfCardSecret(hand[j][k], vtmf);
      for (size_t i2 = 0; i2 < 5; i2++)
      @{
        if (i2 == j)
          continue;
        if (!tmcg->TMCG_VerifyCardSecret(hand[j][k], vtmf,
          in_stream[i2], out_stream[i2]))
            std::cerr << "Verification failed!" << std::endl;
      @}
      private_hand.push(tmcg->TMCG_TypeOfCard(hand[j][k], vtmf),
        hand[j][k]);
    @}
  @}
  else
  @{
    for (size_t k = 0; k < hand[i].size(); k++)
    @{
      tmcg->TMCG_ProveCardSecret(hand[i][k], vtmf,
        in_stream[i], out_stream[i]);
    @}
  @}
@}
@end example
@end cartouche

@node Quit a Session
@section Quit a Session
The last step should release all occupied resources.
@cartouche
@example
delete vsshe, delete vtmf, delete tmcg;
@end example
@end cartouche

@c **********************************************************
@c *******************  Appendices  *************************
@c **********************************************************
@node Licenses
@appendix Licenses
@include gpl.texi
@include fdl.texi

@node General and API Index
@appendix General and API Index
@heading General Index
@printindex cp
@page
@heading API Index
@printindex fn

@bye
